The Project Gutenberg EBook of Butchers', Packers' and Sausage Makers' Red
Book, by Geo. J. Sayer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Butchers', Packers' and Sausage Makers' Red Book

Author: Geo. J. Sayer

Release Date: July 6, 2019 [EBook #59863]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SAUSAGE MAKERS' RED BOOK  ***




Produced by MFR, Harry Lamé and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)









  Transcriber’s Notes

  The following transcription has been used: text between _underscores_
  represents text printed in italics, text between =equal signs=
  represents bold face text and text between ~tildes~ represents
  blackletter or Fraktur. Small capitals have been transcribed as ALL
  CAPITALS.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




  Butchers’
  Packers’ and
  Sausage
  Makers’

  Red Book

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON




  Copyright, 1913
  by
  GEO. J. SAYER




Index of Recipes


  CURING                                           _Page_

  Hams and Bacon                                      2-3
  Smoking                                           14-15
  Boiling Hams                                      14-15
  Sugar Cured Breakfast Bacon                       18-19
  Pumping                                           22-23
  Dry Salt Meats                                    26-27
  Mess Pork                                         38-39
  Spare Ribs                                        42-43
  Pickled Hog Tongues                               42-43
  Pickled Pigs Feet                                 46-47
  Corned Beef                                       46-47
  Rolled Corned Beef                                50-51
  Dried Beef                                        54-55


  SAUSAGE RECIPES

  Liver Sausage                                     58-59
  Braunschweiger Leberwurst                         62-63
  Fancy Braunschweiger Leberwurst                   66-67
  Sardellen Liver Sausage                           70-71
  Blood Sausage                                     70-71
  Tongue Sausage                                    78-79
  Head Cheese                                       82-83
  Pork Sausage                                      86-87
  Wiener or Frankfort Sausage                       90-91
  Bologna Sausage                                   94-95
  Leona Sausage                                     98-99
  Bock Wurst                                      102-103
  Cervelat or Summer Sausage                      106-107
  Salami                                          110-111
  Landjaeger                                      110-111
  Polish Sausage                                  114-115
  Holstein Sausage                                118-119
  Minced Ham                                      118-119
  New England Ham                                 122-123
  Chopping and Mixing                             122-123

(See Page 129 for Index of Supplies and Machinery.)




Directions How to Cure Hams, Picnic Hams, Shoulders, Shoulder Butts and
Breakfast Bacon


  Hams should first be selected into:

  Small hams from 7 to 12 lbs. average.

  Medium hams from 13 to 18 lbs. average.

  Large hams from 19 to 24 lbs. average.

  For 100 lbs. of small hams, make the following brine:

  5 gallons of water,

  1 lb. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8),

  2 lbs. of granulated sugar,

  8 lbs. of salt,

  Before you pack your hams into tierces, make the following dry mixture
  of:

  10 lbs. of salt,

  2 lbs. of granulated sugar,

  1 lb. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8),

for every 100 lbs. of small hams and rub same well into the hams. The
standard weight of a tierce is 285 lbs. Do not pack any more meat in a
tierce than you need, about 15 gallons of your prepared brine to
properly cure that amount of hams, and fill up the tierce.

(Continued on Page 6)




Anweisung für Schinken, Schultern und Bacon (oder Dürrfleisch) zu salzen


  Schinken sollen erst in folgende Klassen geteilt werden:

  Kleine Schinken von 7 bis 12 Pf. Durchschnitts-Gewicht.

  Mittlere Schinken von 13 bis 18 Pf. Durchschnitts-Gewicht.

  Grosse Schinken von 19 bis 24 Pf. Durchschnitts-Gewicht.

  Man nehme für 100 Pf. kleine Schinken folgende Mischung für Pökel:

  5 Gallonen Wasser.

  1 Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  8 Pf. Salz,

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker.

Ehe man die Schinken in Fässer packt, nehme man folgende trockene
Mischung von

  10 Pf. Salz,

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  1 Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8).

für jede 100 Pf. Schinken und reibe dieselben damit gut ein. Das normale
Gewicht von Fässern ist 285 Pf. Man soll nicht mehr als dieses Gewicht,
einpacken, da noch ungefähr 15 Gallonen von dem vorbereiteten Pökel
notwendig sind, um das Fass zu füllen und das gewünschte Resultat der
Salzung zu erzeugen.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 7)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  Guaranteed under the National Pure Food Laws

  Prices:

   25-lb. Cases      per lb. 25c
   50-lb. Cases      per lb. 24c
  100-lb. Cases      per lb. 23c
  250-lb. Barrels    per lb. 21¹⁄₂c
  500-lb. Barrels    per lb. 20c

  Berkshire Preserver

  The Best and Most Modern Combined Preservative and Seasoning on
  Earth-- _Pure and Wholesome_

  For All Kinds of
  Pork Sausage
  Liver Sausage
  Head Cheese, etc.

  A _Preservative_ that can legally be used without labeling the Sausage
  to show its presence.

  _Serial Number and Guarantee
  on Every Package_

  Used by the Largest and Best
  Sausage Makers

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

If the hams are cured in open tierces, they must be overhauled and
repacked at least three times, first in about five days after packing,
then in seven or eight days and then in about twelve or fourteen days.
To do this the proper way, take one tierce, the same size, have it good
and clean, sprinkle some Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn
Preserver (p. 8) on the bottom of the tierce, then pack your hams from
one tierce into the other and use your same brine again.

Hams cured in closed up tierces, simply roll from one end of the cooler
to the other, or at least from 100 to 150 feet. The necessity of doing
this, is to give the brine a chance to work from all sides of the hams.

Time required to cure small hams is from 55 to 65 days. The same method
is required in curing medium and large hams, with the exception of
adding from 1 to 3 lbs. more salt to your 5 gallons of prepared brine
and cure from 5 to 15 days longer.

(Continued on Page 10)

Werden die Schinken in offene Fässer gepackt, so ist es notwendig,
dieselben wenigstens drei mal umzupacken. Dasselbe geschieht auf
folgende Weise:

Ungefähr nach fünf Tagen nimmt man ein reines Fass von derselben Grösse,
streut etwas Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S.
8) über den Boden des Fasses und packt die Schinken von einem Fass in
das andere und gebraucht denselben Pökel wieder. Wiederhole dasselbe
nach 7 oder 8 Tagen und dann wieder nach 12 oder 14 Tagen.

Schinken in geschlossene Fässer gesalzen, braucht man blos in derselben
vorher angegebenen Zeit von dem einen Ende des Kellers nach dem andern
zu rollen oder ungefähr eine Strecke von 100 bis 150 Fuss. Das Umpacken
sowie das Rollen ist unbedingt notwendig, um dem Pökel Gelegenheit zu
geben, an allen Seiten des Schinkens zu wirken.

Kleine Schinken sollen 55 bis 65 Tage Zeit haben zum Durchsalzen.

Dieselbe Behandlung ist anzuwenden bei der mittleren und grossen Sorte
Schinken, mit dem Unterschied, dass man von 1 bis. 3 Pf. mehr Salz zu
fünf Gallonen Pökel gebraucht und dieselben von 5 bis. 15 Tagen länger
lagern lässt.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 11)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  Guaranteed under the National Pure Food Laws

   25-lb. Cases          per lb. 25c
   50-lb. Cases          per lb. 24c
  100-lb. Cases          per lb. 23c
  250-lb. Barrels        per lb. 21¹⁄₂c
  500-lb. Barrels        per lb. 20c

  The Best and Most Modern Combined Preservative and Seasoning on Earth.
  Pure and Wholesome

  SHORTHORN
  PRESERVER

  For all kinds of =Smoked Sausage= such as Frankforts, Bologna, Summer
  Sausage, Cervelat, Salami, Metwurst, Etc.

  A Preservative that will retain the bright, fresh and natural color
  and flavor of the meat. Serial Number and Guarantee on every package.

  Used by the Largest and
  Best Sausage Makers

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

If you desire to have your hams cured in less time than above mentioned,
it is well to pump them before packing, also at time of overhauling.

  Hams or shoulders should be pumped with the following, thoroughly
  dissolved solution of:

  3 lbs. of salt.

  2 lbs. of granulated sugar.

  ¹⁄₂ lb. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8).

  1 gallon of water.

This is sufficient for 285 lbs. of meat, or one tierce.

The process of pumping hams, not only shortens the time of curing, but
also gives the meat a mild, sweet flavor, and prevents the same from
souring.

Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8) is a
preparation to prevent the fermentation and souring of the brine and
also gives the above mentioned flavor. It is guaranteed under the Food
and Drugs Act of June 30th, 1906. Serial No. 10222.

(Continued on Page 14)

Sollte es gewünscht sein, dass die Schinken in einer kürzeren Zeit als
in der vorher angegebenen, zum Gebrauch fertig sein sollen, so ist es
notwendig, dieselben mit der folgenden Mischung zu füllen:

  Für 285 Pf. oder 1 Fass nehme--

  3 Pf. Salz,

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  ¹⁄₂ Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S.
  8),

  1 Gallone Wasser.

Diese Mischung muss gut aufgelöst werden und dann mit einer Pumpe in die
verschiedenen Teile des Schinkens gespritzt werden. Schinken in dieser
Weise behandelt, bekommen einen ausgezeichneten, süssen und milden
Geschmack, auch verhütet diese Behandlung das Sauerwerden des Fleisches.

Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8) ist eine
Präparation welche die Fäulniss und das Sauerwerden des Fleisches, sowie
des Pökels verhindert und zu gleicher Zeit den oben erwähnten,
vortrefflichen Geschmack erzeugt.

Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8) ist
garantirt unter dem “Food and Drug Act of June 30th, 1906, Serial No.
10222.”

(Fortsetzung auf S. 15)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  THE PERFECT PICKLE

  For Curing Hams, Bacon, Corned Beef, Shoulders, Etc.

  Victor Pure Food Brine

  Cures quickly and uniformly. Meats cured with Victor Pure Food Brine
  have an appetizing appearance and a delicious flavor.

  Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act of June 30th, 1906. Serial No.
  10222

  Put up in 1 lb. Packages

  Price:

   15 lbs.           per lb. 17¹⁄₂c
   25 lbs.           per lb. 16c
   50 lbs.           per lb. 15c
  100 lbs.           per lb. 14c
  Barrels, in bulk   per lb. 12¹⁄₂c

  DIRECTIONS:

To 5 gallons of water, add 1 lb. of Victor Pure Food Brine, 8 lbs. of
Salt and 2 lbs. of Granulated Sugar. The result will please you.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Smoking Hams

After the hams are well cured, take them out, wash and scrub them well
with hot water, then hang them up and let them dry well before they are
put into the smoke house. Be very careful that your fire does not get
too hot, as hams are to be smoked slow, and with a rather cold smoke.


Boiling Hams

Many butchers make a big mistake in boiling their hams in a hurry. A ham
should at least have 24 hours the following way for boiling: Get your
hams ready in the afternoon, take out the bones for boneless ham, and
string them with twine, then place them in your kettle, or steam box, in
cold water and let same come slowly to a boil, then turn off your steam,
or let your fire go down. Next morning turn on your steam again, and
keep your water close to boiling temperature for 5 to 6 hours, then shut
off your steam and keep your box or kettle covered until late in the
afternoon, when your hams will be ready to be taken out. By following
this method of boiling, you are not only getting a juicy ham, but also
gain from ¹⁄₂ to 1¹⁄₂ lbs. in weight on every one you cook, where by
quick boiling you will have a corresponding loss in weight, besides a
dry and straw like tasting ham.

(Continued on Page 18)


Schinken zu Räuchern

Nachdem die Schinken, durchgesalzen sind, nehme man dieselben aus der
Lake heraus, wasche und bürste dieselben gut mit heissem Wasser ab,
hänge dieselben auf, um sie gut abtrocknen zu lassen, ehe man dieselben
in den Rauch hängt. Man muss sehr vorsichtig sein, dass das Feuer nicht
zu heiss wird, da die Schinken langsam und mehr mit kaltem Rauch
geräuchert werden sollen.


Schinken zu Kochen

Viele Wurstmacher machen einen grossen Fehler indem sie ihre Schinken in
grosser Eile kochen. Dieselben sollen wenigstens 24 Stunden auf folgende
Weise gekocht werden:

Man bereite dieselben für den Nachmittag vor, nehme die Knochen heraus,
für “Boneless Ham,” umbinde dieselben fest mit starker Schnur oder
“Twine,” lege sie dann in den Kessel oder “Steam Box” in kaltes Wasser,
bringe dasselbe langsam zum Kochen. Dann drehe den Dampf ab oder lasse
Feuer langsam ausgehen. Am nächsten Morgen bringe man das Wasser wieder
zum Kochen, lasse dasselbe für 5 bis 6 Stunden weiter sieden, dann
stelle abermals den Dampf oder das Feuer ab und lasse die Schinken bis
zum Abend im Kessel gut zugedeckt liegen. Bis dahin sind dieselben dann
fertig zum herausnehmen. Indem man die Schinken auf diese Weise kocht,
bleiben dieselben gut saftig und gewinnen von ¹⁄₂ bis 1¹⁄₂ Pf. im
Gewicht, während sie auf schnellere Weise gekocht, im Gewicht verlieren
und nebenbei noch trocken und geschmacklos werden.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 19)

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE ONLY PURE FOOD SPICE

  The “BEST” Sausage Seasoning

[Illustration]

  BRANDS

  “P”--Best Seasoning for Pork Sausage.
  “B”--Best Seasoning for Bologna and Smoked Sausage.
  “F”--Best Seasoning for Frankfurts and Wieners.
  “L”--Best Seasoning for Liverwurst, Head Cheese, etc.
  “S”--Best Seasoning for Summer Sausage and Cervelat.

A correct mixture with just the right proportion of each spice and herb,
perfectly mixed.

It is always the same, and gives your sausage always the _same uniform
flavor_, every day alike.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

  TRY IT!

  Guaranteed Satisfactory or Money Refunded

  The “BEST” Sausage Seasoning

[Illustration]

  Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act of June 30th, 1906. Serial No.
  10222

  PUT UP IN

  10-lb. Cans,  22c lb.   50-lb. Cans,  18c lb.  200-lb. Bbls., 15c lb.
  25-lb. Cans,  20c lb.  100-lb. Cans,  17c lb.  300-lb. Bbls., 14c lb.

Packed in air tight tin cans, it does not lose its strength.

_Economical_--Three-quarters of a pound will season perfectly 100 pounds
of meat.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

For shoulders, picnic hams and shoulder butts, the very same method and
the same brine, prepared with Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or
Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8) should be used for curing. The time required
for curing is the same as for the small size hams.


Sugar Cured Breakfast Bacon

  Assort bellies into:

  Light bellies, 7 to 12 lbs. average.

  Heavy bellies, 12 to 16 lbs. average.

  Use for 100 lbs. light bellies:

  7 lbs. salt,

  2 lbs. granulated sugar,

  1 lb. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8),

  5 gallons of water.

  Also make a dry mixture of:

  3¹⁄₂ lbs. salt.

  1 lb. granulated sugar.

  ¹⁄₂ lb. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8),

and rub each belly well with the dry mixture before you pack them loose
into your tierces, and cure them from 22 to 26 days.

(Continued on Page 22)

Für Schultern und Schulter-Butts, gebrauche genau dieselbe Behandlung
und denselben mit Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn
Preserver (S. 8) vorbereiteten Pökel. Es nimmt dieselbe Zeit in Anspruch
zum Durchsalzen, als die kleine Sorte Schinken.


Dürrfleisch oder Geraücherte Seitenstücke (Bacon)

Dieselben sollen in zwei Sorten geteilt werden.

In leichte von 7 bis 12 Pfund und in schwere von 12 bis 16 Pfund Stücke.

  Für 100 Pf. leichte Stücke nehme

  7 Pf. Salz,

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  1 Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  5 Gallonen Wasser.

  Ebenfalls mache die folgende trockene Mischung:

  3¹⁄₂ Pf. Salz,

  1 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  ¹⁄₂ Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S.
  8).

(Fortsetzung auf S. 23)

       *       *       *       *       *

  English Breakfast
  Pork Sausage
  Seasoning

[Illustration]

  A Fancy Seasoning for
  Extra Fine Pork Sausage

  A Very Classy Seasoning--The Best Thing Out--It Pleases the Most
  Particular

  PUT UP IN

  25 lb. Cans, per lb. 25c  100 lb. Cans, per lb. 22c
  50 lb. Cans, per lb. 23c  Barrels       per lb. 18c

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

  A Perfect Seasoning for
  Fancy Liver Sausage

  Braunschweiger Leberwurst Gewürz

  (Made from the Original German Formula)

  A Delicious Flavor, put up in

  25 lb. Cans, per lb. 28c  100 lb. Cans, per lb. 25c
  50 lb. Cans, per lb. 26c  Barrels       per lb. 22c

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Bellies must be repacked and overhauled the same as hams and shoulders.
This must be done, as you will have better results with your curing.


Pumping Bellies

As for pumping them with the same solution of Victor Pure Food Brine,
and the same way as you pump hams and shoulders, it will cure them in
just half the time, and will give the bacon a more uniform cure and a
good color.


Heavy Bellies

  For 100 lbs. of heavy bellies use:

  10 lbs. salt.

  2¹⁄₂ lbs. granulated sugar.

  1¹⁄₂ lbs. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p.
  8).

  5 gallons of water.

  Also the following dry mixture of:

  5 lbs. of salt.

  1¹⁄₄ lbs. of granulated sugar.

  ³⁄₄ lb. Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8).

and rub the dry mixture well into the bellies before you pack them loose
into your tierces. Length of time for curing heavy bellies is from 25 to
40 days. The overhauling and pumping process will be the same as used on
light bellies, also the good results will be the same.

(Continued on Page 26)

Reibe jedes Stück gut ein mit dieser Mischung, dann lege dieselben lose
in die Fässer, giesse den bereiteten Pökel darüber und lasse das Fleisch
dann von 22 bis 26 Tagen liegen.

Die Seitenstücke müssen ebenso umgepackt werden wie die Schinken und
Schultern, um ein besseres Resultat beim Salzen zu erlangen.


Schwere Seitenstücke (Bacon)

  Für 100 Pf. nehme

  10 Pf. Salz,

  2¹⁄₂ P. granulierten Zucker,

  1¹⁄₂ Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S.
  8),

  5 Gallonen Wasser.

  Ebenfalls die trockene Mischung von

  5 Pf. Salz,

  1¹⁄₄ Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  ³⁄₄ Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S.
  8),

und behandle und packe das Fleisch auf dieselbe Weise als die leichten
Stücke. Die Zeit für schwere Stücke durchzusalzen ist von 25 bis 40
Tagen und müssen sie ebenfalls mehrere mal umgepackt werden.

_Das Pumpen_ oder Auffüllen der Seitenstücke mit Pökel ist ebenfalls von
grossem Vorteil, da das Fleisch in der halben Zeit durchgesalzen ist und
ebenso eine schöne rote Farbe erhält.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 27)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Special Victor

[Illustration]

  For Sausage of All Kinds

  Special Victor
  FOR SAUSAGE OF ALL KINDS

  The Best Binder! Why?

  1. BECAUSE it takes up the fatty matter.

  2. BECAUSE it holds the moisture and binds the meat.

  3. It does not sour.

  4. It makes a BETTER binder and enables you to produce a better
  sausage.

  Prove It! How?

  Make the Following Test

  1. Take ¹⁄₄ pound of our VICTOR and ¹⁄₄ pound of any other flour on
  the market.

  2. Put each in separate glass jars and add to each ¹⁄₂ pound of water
  and stir thoroughly.

  3. NOTE THE RESULT--how much better our VICTOR binds and forms a solid
  mass.

  4. Let both mixtures stand an hour or so.

  5. NOTE THE RESULT. Our VICTOR continues to hold. No other flour does.

  6. Order a few barrels and try it in your sausage. The result will
  please you.

Directions

Add to the meat, while chopping, according to kind of sausage, and ADD
PLENTY OF WATER. Or, dissolve the VICTOR in the water and add while
chopping.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Smoke your bellies the same careful way as you do hams and shoulders,
always be very careful to not smoke them too hot.


Dry Salt Meats and How to Cure Them

Regular short ribs are made from the sides of the hog, between the ham
and shoulder, having the loin and ribs in and backbone removed.

Extra short ribs are made from the sides of the hog, with loin taken
out, but belly ribs left in.

Short ribs are made, having the loin, ribs and backbone in.

Short clears are made from the sides of the hog between the ham and
shoulder having the loin in and ribs and backbone removed.

Extra short clears are with loin and all bones taken out.

(Continued on Page 30)

Der Pökel soll auf dieselbe Weise mit Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12)
oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8) vorbereitet werden als für Schinken und
Schultern.

_Das Räuchern_ der Seitenstücke (Bacon), auch Dürrfleisch genannt, muss
ebenso vorsichtig getan werden, als für Schinken. Das Feuer darf
unbedingt nicht zu heiss werden.


Trocken-gesalzenes Schweinefleisch

_Reguläre kurze Rippen_ (_Regular Short Ribs_) werden von der Seite des
Schweines, zwischen den Schinken und der Schulter herausgeschnitten. Die
“Loin” und Rippen müssen bleiben, aber der Rückenknochen muss beseitigt
werden.

_Extra kurze Rippen_ (_Extra Short Ribs_) werden von der Seite des
Schweines, ohne die “Loin,” aber mit den Bauchrippen daran
herausgeschnitten.

_Kurze Rippen_ (_Short Ribs_) werden mit der “Loin,” den Rippen und den
Rückenknochen daran, zugeschnitten.

_Short Clears_ werden von der Seite des Schweines, zwischen den Schinken
und der Schulter, ohne die “Loin,” ohne die Rippen und ohne die
Rückenknochen, zugeschnitten.

_Extra Short Clears_ sind mit der “Loin” und all den Knochen
herausgenommen, zugeschnitten.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 31)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Przyprawa do Polskiej Kiełbasy

  DO ZAPRAWIANIA
  KIEŁBASY POLSKIEJ

[Illustration]

  Gwarantowaną Ustawa, obejmującą pokarmy i lekarstwa, dnia 30-go
  czerwca, 1906 roku Serya Nr 10222

  Najlépsza przyprawa korzenna do polskiej kiełbasy Stanowczo najlépsza
  Gwarantowana ze wyrabiana jest podług praw zastrzegających czystość
  wszelkich pokarmów Zwrócimy pieniądze jezeli was nie zadowoli.

Dobrze zmielona i zmieszana. Zawsze ma ten sam smak

  W skrzyniach
  25 i 50 funtowych             Cena 22c za funt

  BARDZO OSZCZĘDNA--Trzy ćwiercie funta wystarczy aby
  dobrze przyprawić 100 funtów mięsa

  SPRÓBUJCIE TĘ PRZYPRAWĘ

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON


  Polish Sausage Seasoning

  DO ZAPRAWIANIA
  KIEŁBASY POLSKIEJ

  The Best                 A Perfect
  Spice for [Illustration] and
  Polish                   Correct
  Sausage                  Mixture

  Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs
  Act, June 30th, 1906. Serial No. 10222


  ECONOMICAL--Three-quarters of a pound
  will season perfectly 100 pounds of meat.

  Thoroughly ground and mixed. Always the same flavor.

  Put up in 25 and 50 lb. Drums
  Price per pound 22c

  Guaranteed to conform with the Pure Food Laws. Satisfactory or money
  refunded. TRY IT.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Long clears are made from sides, ham being cut off, shoulder left in,
backbone and ribs removed, shoulder blade and leg bone taken out and leg
cut off close to the breast.

Extra long clears are made from sides, ham being cut off, loin, rib and
backbone removed, shoulder blade and leg bone taken out and leg cut off
close to the breast.

Short clear backs are made from the backs of hogs with the loin left in,
ribs and backbone removed.

Short fat backs are made from fat backs being free from lean and bone.

Dry salt bellies are made from medium sized hogs, cut square and trimmed
on all sides, with ribs left in.

Dry salt clear bellies are with ribs taken out.

  _Dry salt meats_ should all be prepared the following way:

  To every 3 lbs. of “P” Savaline (p. 36) add 12 lbs. salt or use, if
  preferred, 3 lbs. Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8) with 12 lbs. salt.

(Continued on Page 34)

_Long Clears_ werden zugeschnitten ohne den Schinken, aber mit der
Schulter darangelassen. Rückenknochen, Rippen, Schulterplatte und
sämtliche Knochen müssen herausgenommen und ebenso die Beine nahe an der
Brust abgeschnitten werden.

_Short Clear Backs_ werden von dem Rücken des Schweines, mit der “Loin”
daran gelassen, Rippen und Rückenknochen herausgenommen, zugeschnitten.

_Short Fat Backs_ sind von dem Rückenspeck zugeschnitten, alles magere
Fleisch und Knochen entfernt.

_Dry Salt Bellies_ werden von mittelgrossen Schweinen, in viereckige
Stücken mit den Rippen darangelassen, zugeschnitten.

_Dry Salt Clear Bellies_ werden auf dieselbe Weise zugeschnitten, blos
mit den Rippen herausgenommen.

_Bemerkung._ Wir sehen uns genötigt, bei verschiedenen Fleischteilen die
englische Benennung zu gebrauchen, da der Schnitt des Fleisches
vollständig verschieden ist und uns es deshalb unmöglich ist, die
Bestandteile in die deutsche Sprache zu übersetzen.

_Trocken-gesalzenes Schweinefleisch_ soll auf die folgende Weise
behandelt werden.

Zu jeden 3 Pf. “P.” Savaline (S. 36), nehme 12 Pf. Salz, oder gebrauche
wenn vorrätig, 3 Pf. Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8) und 12 Pf. Salz.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 35)

       *       *       *       *       *

  ~Reiner Brothers~

  DEALERS IN
  ~Fresh and Salt Meats, Live and
  Dressed Poultry~

  ~Pure Lard a Specialty~

  PHONE 6

  NO. 415 THIRD STREET

  _Middletown, Ohio_, Oct. 23rd, 1912.

  Wolf, Sayer & Heller,

  Chicago, Ill.

  Dear Sirs:--

  The English Breakfast Pork Sausage Seasoning which you sent us is the
  best we have ever used. Our pork sausage trade has increased double
  since using the English Breakfast Pork Sausage Seasoning.

  Yours truly,

[Illustration: Reiner Bros Per Lewis Reiner M’g’r]

       *       *       *       *       *

  Hamburger Seasoning

  The Best Seasoning
  for Hamburger Steak
  Chopped Beef, Etc.

  Just the right combination of Spices, thoroughly ground and mixed,
  _and ready for use_.

  Gives the Hamburger Steak just the right, nice _appetizing flavor_,
  and will _double your sales_ of this article.

  Put up in tight tin cans (10, 25 and 50 lbs.), holds its strength
  perfectly, _always grades the same_, making the flavor always uniform.

  Price, 25c per lb.
  Send for a Trial Can
  Guaranteed to please you

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Use 5 lbs. of this mixture to every 100 lbs. of meat; rub this well into
all parts of the meat. Clean the floor of your cooler good, sprinkle
some salt over the floor, and then pile your sides up, one on top of the
other, put plenty of salt between each layer, the more salt the better.

Heavy sides should be pumped with the same solution of Victor Pure Food
Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8), as used for hams, bacon and
shoulders.

All dry salt meats should be at least three times repacked and resalted.
Five days after first salting, shake all salt off and resalt the same
way as the first salting and pile up the same as before. Do this again
10 days later, then 20 days later.

Light sides take from 35 to 40 days to cure.

Heavy sides take from 55 to 60 days to cure.

_The temperature of coolers_ where pickled and dry salted meats are
kept, should never be allowed to go below 36 degrees Fahrenheit, nor
above 40 degrees. If coolers are kept below 36 degrees, meat will not
cure in brine or take salt if dry salted.

(Continued on Page 38)

Von dieser Mischung, nehme für jede 100 Pf. Fleisch, 5 Pf. und reibe
dasselbe gut in das Fleisch ein. Nachdem das Fleisch auf diese Weise
vorbereitet ist, lege man dasselbe schichtenweise auf den Boden des
Kühlraumes und bestreue jede Schicht oder Lage, reichlich mit grobem
Salz. Man darf in diesem Falle nicht sparsam sein mit dem Salz, je mehr
dazwischen gestreut wird, desto besser für das Fleisch.

_Leichte Seitenstücke_ gebrauchen von 35 bis 40 Tage, schwere
Seitenstücke können ebenfalls mit derselben Auflösung von Victor Pure
Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn (S. 8), die für Schinken und Schultern
gebraucht wird, gesalzen werden. Alles trockengesalzene Fleisch soll
wenigstens drei mal umgepackt und übergesalzen werden und zwar fünf Tage
nach der ersten Salzung, dann zehn Tage nach der ersten Salzung, dann
zehn Tage nach der zweiten und zwanzig Tage nach der dritten Salzung.
Das Fleisch wird auf dieselbe Weise behandelt als wie bei der ersten
Salzung.

_Die Temperatur_ des Kühlraumes soll niemals unter 36 Grad Fahrenheit
und nie über 40 Grad gehalten werden. Ist die Temperatur unter 36 Grad,
so wird das Fleisch im Pökel, sowie das trockengesalzene, sich sehr
schlecht durchsalzen.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 39)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  VICTOR
  PURE FOOD
  SAVALINE
  BRAND “P”

  For Curing and Dry Salting

  The Perfect Preserver for
  Packing and Curing Hams,
  Bacon, Bolognas, New
  England Hams, Shoulders,
  Corned Beef and All Kinds
  of Smoked Sausages

  Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act of June 30th, 1906. Serial No.
  10222

  Put up in 1 Lb. Packages

  Price:

   15 and 25 lbs      per lb. 27c
   50 lbs             per lb. 26c
  100 lbs             per lb. 25c
  Bbls., in bulk      per lb. 22c

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Mess Pork or Barreled Pork


Description and How to Cure

Mess pork is made from the sides of well-fattened hogs, split through
the backbone, and cut in strips 6 inches wide.

Mess pork short cut is made from the backs of prime hogs, split through
the backbone, backbone left in and bellies taken off, cut into pieces 6
inches square.

Clear back pork is made from the fat part of the backs, being free from
lean and bone and cut into pieces 6 inches square.

Loin pork is made from the end of the back next to the ham, with both
lean and fat and part tailbone in.

_Belly pork_ is selected from heavy weight bellies with ribs left in and
cut into 5-inch pieces.

_To cure_ all the above-mentioned pork, take a clean barrel, which holds
190 lbs. of meat, throw a few handsfull of salt on the bottom, pack in
layer after layer and put three to four handsfull of salt between each
layer until barrel is full. Then make the following brine for each
barrel or 190 lbs. of pork:

  30 lbs. of salt.

  2 lbs. of Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p.
  8).

  10 gallons of water.

(Continued on Page 42)

_Mess Pork_ wird von Seiten, von gut gemästeten Schweinen gemacht, der
Rückenknochen gespalten und das Fleisch in sechs-zöllige, lange Streifen
geschnitten.

_Mess Pork Short Cut_ wird von den Rücken von gut gemästeten Schweinen
geschnitten mit dem Rückenknochen gespalten und darangelassen,
Bauchlappen abgeschnitten und dann in sechs-zöllige, viereckige Stücke
geschnitten.

_Clear Back Pork_ wird von der Speckseite des Rückens gemacht, alles
magere Fleisch und alle Knochen entfernt und ebenfalls in sechs-zöllige,
viereckige Stücke geschnitten.

_Loin Pork_ wird von dem Ende des Rückens, nahe dem Schinken, mit dem
Speck, dem mageren Fleisch, sowie einem Teil des Schwanzknochen daran,
ausgeschnitten.

_Belly Pork_ wird von schweren Bauchstücken ausgesucht, mit den Rippen
darangelassen und in fünf-zöllige Stücke geschnitten.

Alles vorhergenannte Schweinefleisch wird auf folgende Weise gesalzen
und verpackt:

Man nehme ein Fass (Pork Barrel) welches 190 Pf. Fleisch hält, streue
ein paar Hände voll Salz auf den Boden desselben, dann lege das Fleisch,
eine Lage nach der andern ein, und streue 3 bis 4 Hände voll Salz
zwischen jede Lage, bis das Fass voll ist.

  Dann mache folgenden Pökel für ein Fass oder 190 Pf.:

  30 Pf. Salz,

  2 Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  10 Gallonen Wasser,

  lasse denselben gut auflösen und giesse dann über das Fleisch wenn die
  Fässer offen sind. Werden die Fässer geschlossen, so giesse den Pökel
  durch das Spundloch, bis das Fass voll ist.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 43)

[Illustration]

  The
  Victor
  Ham
  Press

  The latest and most satisfactory machine
  made for pressing hams for boiling, giving
  them the correct cylinder shape which saves
  all waste in cutting.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  Style 2 Block

  Unequaled for durability, quality and workmanship. The best in the
  world.

  Sections, 16 inches high. Block, 32 inches high over all.

                                 SIZES
  20 x 20        25 x 30        25 x 72        30 x 50        35 x 40
  20 x 25        25 x 35        30 x 30        30 x 60        35 x 50
  24 x 24        25 x 40        30 x 35        30 x 70        35 x 60
  25 x 25        25 x 60        30 x 40        35 x 35

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Have this well dissolved and pour same over the pork if packed into open
packages or through bung hole if barrels are headed up.


How to Cure Spare Ribs

First make the same dry mixture of Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or
Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8), as used for hams and bacon, and rub the ribs
well with that, then make the following brine for every 100 lbs. of
ribs:

  5 gallons of water.

  1 lb. of Victor Pure Food Brine (p. 12) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8).

  2 lbs. of granulated sugar.

  10 lbs. of salt,

  and let your ribs cure in this brine from 7 to 12 days.


Pickled Hog Tongues

Have all tongues well cleaned from slime, all fat and ragged pieces
trimmed off, then hang them up in your cooler, to have them thoroughly
chilled before you put them into the following brine: Use for every 5
gallons of water

  10 lbs. of salt.

  1 lb. “P” Savaline (p. 36) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8).

  2 lbs. of granulated sugar,

  and have your tongues cure in this brine from 25 to 30 days.

(Continued on Page 46)


Spare Ribs

Mache dieselbe trockene Mischung von Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder
Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8), die für Schinken und Schultern gebraucht
wird und reibe die Rippen gut damit ein. Dann mache folgenden Pökel, für
jede 100 Pf. Rippen:

  5 Gallonen Wasser,

  1 Pf. Victor Pure Food Brine (S. 12) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  10 Pf. Salz.

Lasse die Rippen in diesem Pökel von 7 bis 12 Tagen liegen, um dieselben
gut durchzusalzen.


Pickled Hog Tongues

Alle Zungen müssen gründlich von allem Schleim, Fett und den losen
kleinen Stücken gereinigt werden. Auch ist es notwendig, dieselben in
dem Kühlraum aufzuhängen, bis die Zungen gut abgekühlt sind. Dann mache
den folgenden Pökel:

  Zu je 5 Gallonen Wasser nehme

  10 Pf. Salz,

  1 Pf. “P” Savaline (S. 36) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

und lasse die Zungen in diesem Pökel zum Durchsalzen von 25 bis 30 Tagen
liegen.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 47)

  Style 1 Counter

[Illustration]

  White Tile with Oak Trim

  The Wood Trim can be finished in any shade desired

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON


[Illustration]

  Paneled Oak with Fluted Pilasters

  Beautiful Fixtures are Our Specialty

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Pickled Pigs Feet

Clean the feet very carefully, split them in half, then put them from 4
to 6 days in brine, prepared the same way as for tongues. After the
sixth day boil them slowly until the feet are nicely cooked. Then cool
them well with cold water and pack them into your barrels or tierces
with vinegar, some whole white pepper, cloves and bay leaves.


Corned Beef

The majority of retail butchers make corned beef every day. I mean by
this that rump pieces, plates, briskets and all parts of beef, which can
not be sold at a good price, should not be put into your brine every day
and taken out as you need it. This way you will have some of it too much
cured, and some not enough. The best way is to have your plates separate
from your thick pieces and pickle both in the following brine: For every
5 gallons of water use

  10 lbs. of salt.

  2 lbs. of sugar.

  1 lb. of “P” Savaline (p. 36) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8),

and cure your meat in this from 12 to 25 days, according to thickness of
the pieces. If you are forced to pickle some of your beef again, put it
up the same way in a different barrel; if the first lot is not sold yet.
This way you will have nice, fine and red cured corned beef, whereas
otherwise put up and put into brine every day, your meat will be only
half cured and many times spoiled, as your brine sours very easily and
your loss will be double, as you also will lose your customer.

(Continued on Page 50)


Pickled Pigs Feet

Die Schweinsfüsse müssen sehr gut gereinigt werden, in der Mitte
gespalten, dann von 4 bis 6 Tagen in Pökel liegen. Der Pökel muss auf
dieselbe Weise mit “P” Savaline (S. 36) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),
wie für Schweinszungen, vorbereitet werden. Nach 6 Tagen koche die Füsse
langsam bis dieselben gut weich sind, dann kühle man sie gut ab in
kaltem Wasser. Nachdem packe man dieselben in die bestimmten Gefässe
(Kegs, Barrels oder Tierces) mit Essig, etwas ganzem weissen Pfeffer,
ganzen Nelken und etwas Lorbeer Blättern.


Corned Beef

Die Mehrzahl von den kleineren Geschäften (Retail Butchers) machen jeden
Tag “Corned Beef.” Mit dieser Behauptung meinen wir, dass die
verschiedenen Fleischteile von Rindvieh, z. B. Rump Pieces, Plates,
Briskets, sowie alle Teile des Rindfleisches, die nicht vorteilhaft
verkauft werden können, tagtäglich in den Pökel getan werden und auch je
nach Gebrauch wieder herausgenommen. Auf diese Weise wird manches
Fleisch zu viel und manches zu wenig gesalzen und hat auch das richtige
Aussehen nicht. Die beste Weise gutes “Corned Beef” zu machen ist
folgende:

(Fortsetzung auf S. 51)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Model
  Cooler

[Illustration]

  Style
  Imperial

  Our Model
  Coolers

  Work the Best
  Look the Best
  Last the Best

  They are built on scientific principles, the result of years of
  experience and careful study of the best methods of construction,
  insulation and dry cold circulation.

  _Our Wall Insulation_ is perfect. Heat proof, cold proof, air proof
  and moisture proof.

  Built in sections, with perfect joints--_easy to set up_.

  _Our Automatic Ventilators_ keep the air sweet.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Rolled Corned Beef

Take boneless plates, cure them from 15 to 30 days in brine prepared the
same way as for other corned beef. After curing, sprinkle a little
ground pepper and ground coriander, and if a garlic flavor is wanted,
sprinkle a little of Sayer’s Extract of Garlic (p. 84) between each
plate, then roll them up very tight with twine or tinned steel wire
skewers. Cook same very slowly to prevent the beef from getting too
dry--it also can be sold fresh. Success is sure with corned beef put up
the above-mentioned way.

(Continued on Page 54)

Salze die dünnen Stücke, ebenso die dicken Stücke allein, in Pökel auf
folgende Weise vorbereitet:

  Zu je 5 Gallonen Wasser, nehme

  10 Pf. Salz,

  1 Pf. “P” Savaline (S. 36) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  2 Pf. Zucker.

Lasse das Fleisch in diesem Pökel von 12 bis 25 Tagen, je nach der Dicke
desselben, zum Durchsalzen, liegen. Sollte man gezwungen sein öfters
“Corned Beef” zu machen, so muss das auf dieselbe Weise geschehen, blos
in andere Fässer gepackt. Auf diese Weise bekommt man schönes,
schmackhaftes “Corned Beef,” während man auf die andere Weise, täglich
gemacht, nicht allein das Fleisch leicht verdirbt, sondern auch die
Kundschaft dadurch verliert. Der Verlust dadurch ist deshalb doppelt.


Rolled Corned Beef

Nehme die Flankenstücke, entferne sämmtliche Knochen und salze das
Fleisch von 15 bis 30 Tagen, in Pökel, ebenso vorbereitet als für
anderes “Corned Beef.” Nachdem das Fleisch gut durchgesalzen ist, streue
etwas gemahlenen Pfeffer und Coriander, ebenso etwas von Sayer Extract
of Garlic (S. 84), wenn der Geschmack gewünscht ist, zwischen dasselbe.
Dann rolle das Fleisch und umbinde es mit starker Schnur oder gebrauche
“Tinned Steel Wire Skewers.” Dann koche das Fleisch langsam, damit
dasselbe nicht zu trocken wird. Es kann ebenfalls auch frisch verkauft
werden. “Corned Beef” auf diese Weise gemacht, erzeugt grosse Nachfrage
und ist eine sehr beliebte Speise.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 55)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Model
  Cooler

[Illustration]

  Style
  Crystal

  The
  Model Cooler

  Nothing more attractive
  can be imagined than a

  White Tile
  Market
  Trimmed with Oak

  Sweet, Clean and Sanitary
  IT ATTRACTS TRADE

  Our Coolers are built to _last a lifetime_, and to stand the severest
  test of time and use.

  Our Coolers are built by skilled workmen and are _perfect in every
  detail_.

  Our system of Cooling Pans utilizes the utmost cooling power of the
  ice, _without waste_, and produces perfect dry cold circulation. _No
  slime or mold in a Model Cooler._

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

Dried Beef

Take beef hams and shoulder clots only for dried beef. Use for 100 lbs.
medium size hams and clots:

  5 gallons of water.

  1 lb. of “P” Savaline (p. 36) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8).

  2 lbs. of granulated sugar.

  10 lbs. of salt.

Cure meat in this brine from 55 to 70 days. If beef is put up in tierce
lots, open or closed, follow the same directions for overhauling and
pumping as used for hams, shoulders and bacons. Dried beef should be
smoked very slowly.

(Continued on Page 58)


Dried Beef

Für dieses Fleisch nehme blos die dicken Teile des Hinterviertels und
ebenso die dicken Teile des Vorderviertels. Für 100 Pf. mittelgrosse
Stücke mache den folgenden Pökel:

  5 Gallonen Wasser,

  1 Pf. “P” Savaline (S. 36) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8),

  2 Pf. granulierten Zucker,

  10 Pf. Salz.

Lasse das Fleisch in diesem Pökel von 55 bis 70 Tagen, je nach der Dicke
desselben, zum Durchsalzen, liegen. Wird das Fleisch in grössere Fässer,
offen oder geschlossen, gesalzen, so muss dieselbe Methode zum Umpacken
und Pumpen gebraucht werden, als für Schinken und Schultern. “Dried
Beef” soll sehr langsam geräuchert werden.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 59)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Sayer Refrigerator Display Case

[Illustration]

  The Only Refrigerator Case with a Perfect Circulation

  Sanitary and Attractive

  A Necessity in Every Up-to-Date Market

  The
  Sayer Refrigerator
  Display Case

  SIZES

   6 ft. long, 30 in. wide, 36 in. high; 2 doors and 1 ice door.
   8 ft. long, 30 in. wide, 36 in. high; 2 doors and 1 ice door.
  10 ft. long, 30 in. wide, 36 in. high; 4 doors and 1 ice door.
  12 ft. long, 30 in. wide, 36 in. high; 4 doors and 1 ice door.
  14 ft. long, 30 in. wide, 36 in. high; 4 doors and 2 ice doors.

Ice chamber in center, except in 14-foot size, which has two ice
chambers, and display sections in center and both ends.

Thoroughly insulated walls.

Two thicknesses of double strength glass front and ends, top glass
beveled plate. All glass set with rubber strips on each side of each
light of glass, making perfect insulation.

Bevel plate mirror in front of ice chamber, swinging doors in rear with
mirrors on inside. All woodwork inside enameled white.

Iced from rear. Enameled metal floor. Flat mesh shelves on nickled
adjustable brackets. The wood trim on outside is polished oak, but can
be finished in white enamel if desired. Metal legs.

The oak top of the ice chamber can be used for wrapping or for a scale.
It can be fitted with a countersunk marble slab if preferred.

This case can be used either with ice or with coils for machine cooling.

It is a beautiful fixture and it helps sell your goods.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *




Directions For Making Fine Sausage


Liver Sausage

For 100 lbs. take 15 to 20 lbs. of hog or calf liver, scald same and
chop fine with 3 or 4 large onions, and a handfull of salt. Add 80 to 85
lbs. of thoroughly cooked hogs heads, cheek meat or calf heads, and
plucks can be used. Chop this mixture very fine and season with 16
ounces of “L” Best Spice (p. 16) and salt according to taste. Also add
according to your requirements Special Victor Flour (p. 24), as “Victor”
enables you to add the water properly and gives the sausage a fine
flavor. To prevent liver sausage from getting sour, use one-half to
three-fourths of a pound “A” Savaline (p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver
(p. 4) to each 100 lbs. of meat. Use hog bungs, beef middles or beef
rounds, fill casings loosely and cook sausage about 30 minutes or more,
just according to thickness of same. To improve the appearance of the
sausage, put same after cooking, into a tub or tierce, and let cold
water run in, until sausage is thoroughly chilled, then place them in
the ice box.

(Continued on Page 62)




Anweisung Feine Wurst zu Machen


Gewöhnliche Leberwurst

Für jede 100 Pf. nehme von 15 bis 20 Pf. Schweins- oder Kalbslebern,
brühe dieselben gut und hacke sehr fein mit 3 bis 4 grossen Zwiebeln und
einer oder zwei Handvoll Salz. Dann nehme von 80 bis 85 Pf. gut
gekochtes Fleisch von Schweins- und Kalbskopf, Backenfleisch, auch
können Herzen gebraucht werden. Alles Fleisch soll fein gehackt werden
und gewürzt mit einem Pfund von “L” Best Spice (S. 16) und je nach dem
Geschmack gesalzen. Auch können “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24)
eingemischt werden, was ermöglicht, bedeutend mehr Wasser zu gebrauchen,
und der Wurst gleichfalls einen sehr guten Geschmack giebt. Um zu
verhindern dass die Wurst sauer wird, nehme man zu jedem 100 Pfund, ¹⁄₂
bis ³⁄₄ Pfund “A” Savaline (S. 112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4). Für
Leberwurst können “Hog Bungs,” “Beef Middles” oder “Beef Rounds”
gebraucht werden. Die Därme sollen nicht zu fest gefüllt werden und die
Wurst soll ungefähr 30 Minuten kochen, je nach der Dicke derselben.
Nachdem dieselbe gut durchgekocht ist, bringt man dieselbe in ein Fass
und lässt kaltes Wasser laufen, bis die Wurst gut abgekühlt ist. Nach
diesem, soll dieselbe in dem Kühlraume aufgehängt werden.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 63)

  Corned Beef
  Tray

[Illustration]

  Porcelain Enamel on Fancy Oak Stand

  The kind of Fixture
  that helps sell your goods

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

  Equipment

If _you_ want a complete equipment or any part of same, write us fully;
send rough plan and general idea of what you want and we will get busy
and furnish you drawings, specifications and estimate.

We make coolers (the best on earth). We make them for ice and we make
them for machine cooling.

We make ice machines to fit the coolers. Ice machines that do the work,
are simple to run and absolutely reliable, and we deliver and install
them complete with power and ready to run.

In fact we fit you out from A to Z--cooler, machine, counters, blocks,
racks, shelving, scales, tools, sausage grinder, stuffer, press, kettle,
lard pails, casings, spices, flour, all complete and correct.

We are headquarters, the oldest and leading firm in this business. Our
goods are right and our prices are right. Write us.

If there is anything you want in this line, even if you don’t see it
here, tell us. We can furnish it.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


“Braunschweiger” Liver Sausage

This sausage is a better article and should bring a better price. For
100 lbs. use 35 lbs. of hog livers, cut up in fine slices, scald well,
and then chop finely with 2 lbs. of raw onions. Add 65 lbs. of back fat,
bellies and pork shoulder, not too much boiled; salt according to taste;
add 1¹⁄₄ lbs. of “L” Best Spice (p. 16). Chop everything very fine and
mix well; stuff loosely into hog bungs and follow the same directions
for cooking as for the ordinary liver sausage. “_Braunschweiger_” should
also be smoked.

(Continued on Page 66)


Braunschweiger Leberwurst

Diese Wurst ist ein bedeutend besserer Artikel und soll deshalb auch
einen viel besseren Preis bringen, als die gewöhnliche Leberwurst. Für
100 Pf. “Braunschweiger” nehme 35 Pf. Schweinslebern, schneide dieselben
in kleine Stücke, brühe gut ab und hacke dann recht fein mit zwei Pfund
rohen Zwiebeln. Dann nehme 65 Pf. Rückenspeck, Bauchlappen und
Schweinsschultern. Dieses Fleisch soll nicht zu weich gekocht werden,
damit die Wurst gut fest wird. Ebenso muss dasselbe sehr fein gehackt
werden, dann gebrauche 1¹⁄₄ Pf. “L” Best Spice (S. 16) und genug Salz je
nach dem Geschmack. Für diese Sorte Wurst sollen blos “Export Hog Bung
Guts” gebraucht und auf dieselbe Weise gestopft und gekocht werden als
die gewöhnliche Leberwurst. “Braunschweiger” soll auch leicht geräuchert
werden.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 67)

  No. 66
  Enterprise Power Chopper

  Rigged with Direct Connected Motor

[Illustration]

  Convenient--Practical
  and Substantial

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

  No. 41
  Victor Direct Connected
  Electric Chopper

[Illustration]

  A Fine Rig for a Small or
  Medium Sized Sausage Factory

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Extra Fancy Braunschweiger Liver Sausage

  Use the following proportion:

  25 lbs. fresh hog livers.

  50 lbs. rich back fat.

  25 lbs. good shoulder pork or trimmings.

First take the 25 lbs. of fresh hog livers, and chop same very fine. Be
very careful about this; it should not be scalded, as that spoils the
sausage. Chop it very fine; in fact, run it through a sieve. The livers
should be chopped alone, and after this is done, add to the fine chopped
liver 50 lbs. of rich back fat and 25 lbs. of good shoulder pork or
trimmings, and chop until the entire lot is very fine.

In the meantime, chop 2 lbs. of raw onions, and parboil into bouillon,
and strain the bouillon into the Braunschweiger. (If preferred, add the
onions raw, but in that case, chop same very fine.)

Then add Wolf, Sayer & Heller’s Braunschweiger Leber Wurst Gewuerz (p.
21), about three-quarters of a pound to 100 lbs. of meat, or according
to taste, and add whatever salt is necessary, and stuff, then give the
sausage a slow cooking until done. Let same dry and cool for one day and
the next day give it a light smoke.

(Continued on Page 70)


Fuer Hochfeine Braunschweiger Leberwurst

Man gebrauche

  25 Pfund Frische Schweinelebern,

  50 Pfund recht fettes Rueckenfett,

  25 Pfund gutes Schweinefleisch von der Schulter oder Trimmings.

Die Lebern sollen nicht gebrueht werden.

Man hacke dieselben recht fein, so dass sie durch ein Sieb gehen, aber
man hacke sie allein, und erst dann tue man das Rückenfett und
Schulterfleisch oder die Trimmings dazu und hacke alles zusammen recht
fein.

Zwei Pfund Zwiebeln sollten fein gehackt und dann gut gekocht werden,
die Brühe sollte dann in das gehackte Fleisch gegossen werden.

Zieht man vor die Zwiebeln roh dazuzutun, dann muessen sie natuerlich so
fein als moeglich gehackt werden.

Zum Wuerzen tue man Wolf, Sayer & Heller’s Braunschweiger Leberwurst
Gewuerz (S. 21) dazu etwa ³⁄₄ Pfund zu je 100 Pfund Fleisch, je nach
Geschmack, und Salz soviel als noetig erscheint.

Nachdem alles gut zusammen gemischt ist und die Wurst gestopft, koche
man langsam bis gar.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 71)

  Wolf’s Peerless
  Sausage Stuffer

[Illustration]

  This cut shows the latest in Sausage Stuffers,
  equipped with our patented self-adjusting
  plunger and safety device. Can be
  used for either air or water,
  without change.

  Wolf’s
  Peerless Sausage
  Stuffer

  _Made in Two Sizes_:
  100-pound Capacity
  200-pound Capacity

  Compare this Stuffer with any other
  on the market, and you will at
  once notice that it is the
  only Stuffer made for
  safety, quick action,
  and durability.

  Notice Our Hand-Hole. One turn of the
  handle removes the cover and replaces it.

  (_See Page 72_)

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N.S.W. CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

For fancy liver sausage, not smoked, use the above recipe exactly
without smoking. It is the smoking that makes it braunschweiger. If you
want a deeper yellow, use Certified Golden Rod Color.


“Sardellen” Liver Sausage

Use everything the same as for “_braunschweiger_,” with the exception of
8 to 10 lbs. of sardines to a 100 lbs. of sausage. Sardines should be
chopped very fine.


Blood Sausage

For this sausage you can use all kinds of cheek meat, hearts and pork
rinds. Put pork rinds in a pudding net, and boil until three-fourths
done, then put in balance of meat to be cooked. Boil all meats to be
used slowly, have the water cover the same, so as to enable you to
remove the fat, which rises to the top (as by omitting this, the
appearance of the sausage would be impaired); also use some back fat,
cut in ¹⁄₄-inch cubes. (The Germania Fat Cutter, p. 112, is a fine
machine for this.) Cook onions and chop them with your hog rinds fine.
All other meat used should be chopped coarse. Take a gallon of beef or
hog blood, mix well with ¹⁄₄ lb. of “A” Savaline (p. 112) or Berkshire
Preserver (p. 4) to every 20 lbs. of meat. Use 1 lb. of “L” Best Spice
(p. 17) at the rate of 100 lbs. of meat and salt according to taste. You
can also add “Special Victor” (p. 24), as desired. In warm and
unfavorable weather use 1 lb. of “A” Savaline (p. 112) or Berkshire
Preserver (p. 4) to every 100 lbs. of meat. This will prevent the
sausage from souring. Hog middles, beef rounds or beef middles can be
used for blood sausage. Casings should be filled only three-quarters
full with a funnel and cooked slowly. While boiling always turn and stir
sausage well, to prevent the blood from settling on to one side of the
sausage, and the meat and back fat on the other side. When the sausage
floats well up to the top, or by pricking same with a skewer no blood
comes out, the same is done and ready to be taken out of the kettle. Put
same into cold water until well chilled. You can also smoke blood
sausage.

(Continued on Page 74)

Man lasse die Wurst trocknen und sich abkuehlen und raeuchere sie am
naechsten Tage leicht an.

Dasselbe Recept ist gut fuer

_Nicht geräucherte Hochfeine Leberwurst_, durch Anraeuchern wird
Braunschweiger Leberwurst daraus.

Wünscht man eine huebsche gelbe Farbe so kann man “Certified Goldenrod
Färbung” vorteilhaft verwenden.


Sardellen Leberwurst

Für diese Wurst wird genau dasselbe Fleisch, Gewürz und dieselben Därme
gebraucht als für “Braunschweiger” blos mit dem einen Unterschied, dass
zu jedem 100 Pf. Fleisch, von 8 bis 10 Pf. Sardienen gebraucht werden.
Dieselben müssen sehr fein gehackt oder gemahlen werden und gut mit dem
übrigen Fleisch vermengt werden.


Blutwurst

Für diese Wurst kann man allerlei Fleisch gebrauchen, Backenfleisch,
Herzen und Schweineschwarten (Hog Rinds). Die Schwarten sollen erst
gekocht werden, da dieselben längere Zeit gebrauchen als das übrige
Fleisch. Dieselben sollen in ein Netz getan werden und dreiviertel
gekocht, ehe man das übrige Fleisch in den Kessel tut. Man gebrauche
ebenfalls gekochten Rückenspeck und schneide denselben mit der Hand oder
mit einer Speckschneide Maschine, der Germania Fett Schneider (S. 112),
ist dafür sehr geeignet, in kleine ¹⁄₄ zöllige Stückchen. Die Zwiebeln
die gebraucht werden, ungefähr zwei Pfund zu je 100 Pf. Fleisch, sollen
gekocht sein und mit den Schwarten fein gehackt werden. Das übrige
Fleisch soll alles grob gehackt oder in kleine Würfel geschnitten
werden. Nehme eine Gallone Rinds- oder Schweineblut, verarbeite dasselbe
gut mit ¹⁄₄ Pf. “A” Savaline (S. 112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4),
zu je 20 Pf. Fleisch. Dann gebrauche 1 Pf. “L” Best Spice (S. 17) zu je
100 Pf. Fleisch und genug Salz je nach Geschmack. Auch kann “Special
Victor Flour” (S. 24) gebraucht werden, je nach Wunsch. Bei heissem oder
ungünstigem Wetter, gebrauche zu je 100 Pf. Fleisch, ein Pfund “A”
Savaline (S. 112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4). Dieses verhindert die
Wurst am Sauerwerden. Krausedärme (Hog Middles), Kranzdärme (Beef
Rounds) oder Schlossdärme (Beef Middles), können gebraucht werden für
Blutwurst. Die Därme dürfen blos dreiviertel voll gefüllt werden. Die
Wurst muss langsam gekocht und beständig umgewendet werden, damit das
Fleisch und der Speck sich nicht auf der einen Seite und das Blut auf
der anderen Seite festsetzt, was der Wurst ein sehr schlechtes Aussehen
giebt. Sobald dieselbe beim Kochen oben auf dem Wasser schwimmt, und
wenn man mit einem Speil in die Wurst einsticht Wasser anstatt Blut
herauskommt, so ist das ein sicheres Zeichen, dass dieselbe gut
durchgekocht ist. Man tue die Wurst dann in kaltes Wasser bis dieselbe
gut abgekühlt ist. Soll Blutwurst sich längere Zeit halten, so soll
dieselbe leicht geräuchert werden.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 75)

  Wolf’s
  Peerless Sausage
  Stuffer

[Illustration]

  Showing Head and Hand
  Hole Open

  Wolf’s
  Peerless Sausage
  Stuffer

  Our stuffers are made to save labor and strength. No lifting. A turn
  of the handle loosens the head, and a child can turn it. When the head
  is open, the pressure is automatically shut off, making it impossible
  to blow out the plunger.

  We also manufacture

  Air Compressors--Air Tanks
  and Complete Equipments

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

(Continued on Page 78)

(Fortsetzung auf S. 79)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Sayer’s Manhattan Stuffer

  The Latest and only Perfect
  Hand Stuffer Made

[Illustration]

  Showing
  Lid Open

  Large Capacity
  Best Workmanship
  Runs Smooth
  Handy

  Far ahead of any other upright Stuffer

  Sayer’s
  Manhattan Hand Stuffer

[Illustration]

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Tongue Sausage

Use exactly the same meats and follow the same method for boiling as for
blood sausage, only add to 100 lbs. of meat, 10 pickled hog tongues,
cooked and cut into long strips, distribute them equally in the mixture,
when filling same into beef bungs. Fill the casings only three-quarters
full, and see that there is no air in it, as casings will burst easily,
if not pierced from time to time with a fine fork.

(Continued on Page 82)


Zungen Blutwurst

Gebrauche genau dasselbe Fleisch und dieselbe Methode zum Kochen als für
Blutwurst. Ausserdem nehme für je 100 Pf. Fleisch, zehn gesalzene
Schweinszungen, koche und schneide dieselben in lange Streifen, verteile
gut zwischen dem Fleisch, wenn dasselbe in Rinderbutten (Beef Bungs)
gefüllt wird. Die Därme sollen ebenfalls blos dreiviertel voll gefüllt
werden und beim Kochen zeitweise mit einer feinen Gabel durchstochen
werden, damit alle Luft heraus kommt, da im Falle dieselbe darin bleibt,
der Darm sehr leicht zerplatzt.


Schwartemagen (Head Cheese)

Schweinskopf, Backenfleisch, Zungen, Schwarten (Hog Rinds) und
hauptsächlich Schweinsknöchel (Shanks) sollen für diese Wurst gebraucht
werden. Alles Fleisch, das gebraucht wird, muss wenigstens 48 Stunden,
mit 1 Pf. “A” Savaline (S. 112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4) zu jedem
hundert, gesalzen werden. An den Schwarten soll man ¹⁄₄ Zoll Speck
lassen und dann nach dem Kochen in kleine 2 Zoll lange Streifen
schneiden. Das übrige Fleisch soll ebenfalls in ¹⁄₂ bis 2 Zoll kleine
Würfel und Streifen geschnitten werden. Zu 100 Pf. Fleisch nehme 15 Pf.
rohes gehacktes Rindfleisch, 1 Pf. “L” Best Spice (S. 16), genug Salz,
je nach dem Geschmack, ein par kleine rohe Zwiebeln oder ein bischen
Knoblauch, je nachdem der Geschmack beliebt ist. Verarbeite dieses gut
mit “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24) da das “Victor Mehl” als sehr gutes
Bindemittel bekannt ist. Schweinsmagen, auch Rinderbutten werden für
diese Wurst gebraucht. Dieselbe müsste von einer halben, bis zu einer
ganzen Stunde, je nach der Dicke der Därme, gekocht werden.
Schwartemagen sollen nachdem dieselben gut abgekühlt sind, gepresst
werden. Man lege dieselben auf einen Tisch, mit Bretter oben darauf und
beschwere dann dieselben mit Gewichten, bis die Magen vollständig kalt
sind. Nachdem kann man dieselben auch leicht räuchern.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 83)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Sayer’s
  Compounded
  Extract of Garlic

[Illustration]

  Contains No         Contains No
  Chemicals          Preservatives


Sayer’s Extract of Garlic is made from fresh, whole garlic when it is
prime and in season, and has its full strength. It is put up in sealed
bottles and does not lose its strength.

It is superior to whole garlic, because whole garlic loses its strength
and flavor when it grows older. The whole garlic is also full of strings
and fibre, while the extract is clean and convenient--is always ready at
any time and holds its strength perfectly.

Put up in 5 gallon bottles and cases of six 5 gallon bottles.

_Directions_--Use according to taste. Shake well before using.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  CONCENTRATED
  GARLIC

  PURE GARLIC
  Always Ready to Use

  Specially Prepared and
  Concentrated _from_ Finest Italian Garlic

  It does not spoil--
  Will not lose strength--
  Is put up in air-tight glass jars--
  Is always as good as fresh garlic--

  Prices:

  Single jar                                             each,  $1.00
  In cases of 6 jars, containing 18 lbs. in all       per case,  4.50
  In cases of 12 jars, containing 36 lbs. in all      per case,  7.00

  Nothing better and purer
  than Concentrated Garlic

=Directions=--Use one ounce of Concentrated Garlic dissolved in one-half
pint of water for every 100 pounds of meat, or more according to taste.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Head Cheese

Hogs heads, cheeks, tongues, hog rinds and especially hog shanks should
be used for this sausage. All meats used should be salted at least 48
hours with 1 lb. of “A” Savaline (p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver (p. 4)
to every 100 lbs. of meat. On hog rinds leave ¹⁄₄ inch of fat and cut
same after they are cooked into 2-inch strips. Cut all other meat into
¹⁄₂ to 2-inch pieces in length. Use to 100 lbs. of meat 15 lbs. of fine
chopped beef, 1 lb. of “L” Best Spice (p. 16), salt according to taste,
few small onions or garlic, if desired, and mix this well with “Special
Victor Flour” (p. 24) as Victor will act as a binder. Hog stomachs and
beef bung guts can be used for head cheese, and boil from ¹⁄₂ hour to 1
hour, just according to size. To give sausage a flat form, press same
over night with a board and weight on it. Head cheese also can be smoked
after it is pressed.

(Continued on Page 86)

(Fortsetzung auf S. 87)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  The Peerless Slicer

  (Patented)

  The
  Peerless Slicer
  (_Patented_)

  For Slicing

  Dried Beef--         Roasts--
  Boiled Ham--         Tongues--
  Bacon--              Sausages--
  Bologna--            Veal Loaf--
  Corned Beef--        Etc.--

  Strong -- Rapid -- Light Running -- Reliable -- Always Ready

  What It Will Do

It will save you money--It will save time and labor--It will increase
your sales--It will add to your profit--It will make new customers and
please your old ones.

It is made of steel, handsomely enameled in dark red and trimmed in
nickel, size 20×22 inches, weight 175 pounds, very powerful and geared
to high speed; it will last a lifetime. _Light running_ because it’s
ball bearing and is so simple in construction it will not get out of
order. Convenience and saving of meat otherwise wasted by hand slicing,
rapidity and easy operation are important features distinctive of the
Peerless Slicer.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Pork Sausage

To make a fine pork sausage, use shoulders only and cut out all the
flabby fat and add to 75 lbs. clean trimmed pork 25 lbs. of back fat, 1
lb. of “P” Best Spice (p. 16), Special Victor (p. 24) as wanted, 2 small
onions, chopped very fine, salt according to taste, and 15 to 20 lbs. of
water. Add water slowly while chopping meat and at time of mixing. The
mixing part is of great value, as you can add much more water to your
meat, and your sausage will have a fine appearance, and the spices are
evenly distributed. Use hog casings only for pork sausage. If you desire
to make smoked pork sausage out of this, do not add as much water as for
fresh sausage; have your meat more solid and smoke sausage in a hot
smoke-house, but not too close to the fire. To make a fancy pork sausage
use our English Breakfast Pork Sausage Seasoning (p. 20) and use either
hog casings or sheep casings.

(Continued on Page 90)


Bratwurst (Pork Sausage)

Um gute Bratwurst zu machen, nehme Schweinsschultern, schneide alles
weiche Fett heraus und zu 75 Pf. magerem Fleisch gebrauche 25 Pf.
Rückenspeck, dann 1 Pf. “P” Best Spice (S. 16), “Special Victor Flour”
(S. 24) zwei kleine rohe Zwiebeln, fein gerieben; genug Salz, je nach
Geschmack, und Wasser nach wunsch. Das Wasser soll in kleinen
Quantitäten während der Verarbeitung (Mixing) des Fleisches, beigetan
werden. Das Verarbeiten (Mixing) ist von sehr grossem Wert, da man
bedeutend mehr Wasser gebrauchen kann, das Gewürz sich gleichmässig
verteilt, die Wurst ein viel besseres Aussehen bekommt und einen guten
saftigen Geschmack erhält. Gebrauche für Bratwurst blos die engen
Schweinsdarme (Hog Casings) und schlinge dieselben in Paren ab. Sollte
es gewünscht sein, geräucherte Bratwurst aus diesem Fleisch zu machen,
so darf man nicht so viel Wasser gebrauchen, da das Fleisch mehr fest
sein muss, als für frische Bratwurst. Dieselbe wird dann im heissen
Rauchfang, nicht zu nahe dem Feuer, geräuchert.

Um eine besonders feine Bratwurst (Fancy Pork Sausage) zu machen
verwende man unser Gewürz “English Breakfast Pork Sausage” (S. 20) mit
entweder schmahlen Hog Casings oder Sheep Casing.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 91)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Peerless Slicer

[Illustration]

  On Pedestal

  The
  Peerless Slicer
  (A Good Investment)

Bacon

Soft and slippery--cut by hand in flabby slices of uncertain
thickness--but the Peerless Slicer makes a clean, quick cut, every slice
the same thickness, neat and attractive. Cuts three or four pieces of
bacon at the same time. No waste meat.

Dried Beef

This machine takes the full piece of dried beef and cuts beautiful, thin
slices, every slice whole and perfect.

Boneless Ham

Hard to slice by hand but the Peerless Slicer turns it out rapidly in
beautiful, even slices which suit better and sell better. Twenty-five
per cent more slices out of every ham.

Bologna

Just the thing for bologna; slices it in perfect, even slices of any
desired thickness, which makes a very favorable impression.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

To make a cheaper pork sausage, use 20 lbs. of beef to 80 lbs. of pork
trimmings. Use the same quantity of “P” Best Spice (p. 16) and “Special
Victor” (p. 24) as for the above mentioned. In hot weather use 12 ounces
of “A” Savaline (p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver (p. 4) to 100 lbs. of
meat to prevent the sausage from souring.


Wiener or Frankfort Sausage

For 100 lbs. use 60 lbs. of lean pork, 30 lbs. of beef and 10 lbs. of
fat pork; chop this very fine; add 16 ounces of “F” Best Spice (p. 16),
“Victor” Flour (p. 24) as desired, 2 small raw onions, also enough salt,
according to taste. Mix this well, the more you mix the better the taste
and appearance. Stuff this into sheep casings, and link or twist into
lengths of 4 to 6 inches and smoke from one-half to three-fourths of an
hour over a hot fire. Also where sale is brisk, frankfurts can be
immersed in hot water for a few minutes, to insure plumpness.

Use about 12 ounces of “A” Salvaline (p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver (p.
4) to 100 lbs. of meat.

(Continued on Page 94)

Um eine billigere Bratwurst zu machen, nehme 20 Pf. Rindfleisch zu 80
Pf. Schweinefleisch (Pork Trimmings). Gebrauche dasselbe Quantum “P”
Best Spice (S. 16) und “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24) als für die vorher
angegebene Sorte. Bei heissem Wetter gebrauche ein Pfund “A” Savaline
(S. 112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4) zu jedem 100 Pf. Fleisch, um
das Sauerwerden der Wurst zu verhindern.


Wienerwurst (auch Frankfurter genannt)

Zu 100 Pf. nehme 60 Pf. mageres Schweinefleisch, 30 Pf. Rindfleisch und
10 Pf. Speck. Hacke all dieses Fleisch sehr fein, gebrauche ein Pfund
“F” Best Spice (S. 16), “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24) je nach wunsch,
zwei kleine rohe Zwiebeln und genug Salz, je nach Geschmack. Verarbeite
das Fleisch sehr gut, je mehr, desto besser wird das Gewürz vermengt und
die Wurst schmeckt viel besser. Stopfe dieses Fleisch in Schafdärme und
drehe dieselben in 4 bis 6 zöllige kleine Würstchen ab. Wienerwurst soll
von einer halben bis dreiviertel Stunde in heissem Feuer geräuchert
werden, und sollte der Verkauf derselben gut sein, so kann man die
Würste ein paar Minuten in heissem Wasser abbrühen, was ein gutes
Aussehen derselben sichert.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 95)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Peerless Slicer

[Illustration]

  With Direct Connected Motor

  The
  Peerless Slicer

  Sanitary

The meat, after it is put in the machine, is not touched with the hands.
This clean and neat method will appeal strongly to your trade.

Once people have tasted meats sliced upon the Peerless Slicer they can
never be induced to accept hand-cut meats.

This beautifully enameled machine and its perfect work attracts the
attention of every customer.

Labor Saving

In this one item of labor saving the Peerless Slicer will quickly pay
for itself.

No work at all. A boy can run it with almost no exertion--and five men
at the block can’t keep up with him. The thickness of the slice is
adjusted with absolute accuracy and can be changed from one thickness to
another in an instant.

No expert meat cutter can compete with this machine; it will pay for
itself in four month’s time.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Bologna Sausage

Take 60 lbs. of beef trimmings, also hearts can be used, 25 lbs. of pork
trimmings and 15 lbs. of fat pork. Beef and pork trimmings should be
cured at least 48 hours, with 1 lb. of “P” Victor Savaline (p. 36) or
Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8) to every 100 lbs. of meat. This will insure a
nice red color. Add 1 lb. of “B” Best Spice (p. 16), and to make sausage
more juicy, add Special Victor Flour (p. 24) as desired. Chop all meats
very fine and mix well, adding sufficient water; fill this mixture into
beef rounds for round bologna; into beef middles for straight bologna,
and into beef bungs for big bologna. Let sausage hang for one-half hour
to dry before you put same into smoke-house to be smoked for one hour in
a hot fire.

If you desire to make garlic sausage, use exactly the same meats as for
bologna, add 2 ounces of Concentrated Garlic (p. 84) or Sayer’s Extract
of Garlic to suit the taste, fill into beef rounds, and tie off into
2¹⁄₂-inch lengths. Smoke and cook the same as round bologna, which takes
30 minutes in water 160 degrees Fahrenheit to boil. Straight bologna
takes 50 to 60 minutes, and big bologna 1¹⁄₄ to 1¹⁄₂ hours (just
according to thickness of sausage) to boil in water 155 to 160 degrees
Fahrenheit.

(Continued on Page 98)


Fleischwurst (Bologna Sausage)

Nehme 60 Pf. Rindfleisch, auch Rindsherzen können gebraucht werden, 25
Pf. Schweinefleisch und 15 Pf. Speck oder fettes Backenfleisch.
Rindfleisch und Schweinefleisch muss zum allerwenigsten 48 Stunden, mit
einem Pfund “P” Victor Savaline (S. 36) oder Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8)
zu je 100 Pf. Fleisch, gesalzen werden. Dieses versichert ein schönes,
rotes Aussehen der Wurst. Dann gebrauche ein Pfund “B” Best Spice (S.
16) und “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24) je nach wunsch. Alles Fleisch
muss sehr fein gehackt und ebenfalls sehr gut verarbeitet werden. Stopfe
dieses Fleisch in Kranzdärme (Beef Rounds) für “Round Bologna,” in
Schlossdärme (Beef Middles) für “Straight Bologna” und in Rinderbutten
(Beef Bungs) für “Big Bologna.” Lasse die Wurst erst gut abtrocknen, ehe
man dieselbe in einem heissen Feuer für ungefähr eine Stunde räuchert.

Sollte Nachfrage für _Knoblauchwurst oder Garlic Sausage_ vorhanden
sein, so gebrauche dasselbe Fleisch und Gewürz als für “Bologna” und
gebrauche noch zwei “Ounces” “Concentrated Garlic” (S. 84) zu je 100 Pf.
Fleisch. Verarbeite dieses sehr gut und stopfe das Fleisch in
Kranzdärme, binde dieselben in der Länge von 2¹⁄₂ Zoll ab, räuchere und
koche dieselben auf dieselbe Weise als die “Round Bologna.” Dieselbe
nimmt 30 Minuten, in Wasser von 160 Grad Fahrenheit, “Straight Bologna”
nimmt 50 bis 60 Minuten und “Big Bologna” von 1¹⁄₄ bis 1¹⁄₂ Stunde zum
Kochen.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 99)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Heller’s
  Golden Rod
  Liver
  Sausage
  Color

[Illustration]

We have had a large call for a special preparation used for imparting a
golden rod color to Liver Sausage, as we all know that a Liver Sausage,
properly colored, will sell faster, and is more attractive to the eye.
There are a great many Liver Sausage colors on the market, but we
recommend HELLER’S, as it is strictly pure, unadulterated, and, being a
liquid, is very easy to handle, besides it is so much cheaper than any
other color of this kind that is on the market.

  Prices Heller’s Golden Rod
  Liver Sausage Color

     Gallon Bottles, each        $1.50
   5 Gallon Keg, per gallon       1.25
  10 Gallon Keg, per gallon       1.10
  25 Gallon, ¹⁄₂ Barrels          1.00

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

  “Majestic” Fish, Oyster and Poultry Box

[Illustration]

  White Tile with Oak Trim--Glass Lids--Marble Top

  A Beautiful Fixture

  Wood Trim can be had in any finish desired

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Leona Sausage

Take 65 lbs. of beef, well trimmed, 25 lbs. pork trimmings and 10 lbs.
of bacon. Cut bacon into small cubes; chop beef and pork very fine and
leave same for one day in cooler. Then add 1 lb. of “F” Best Spice (p.
16), 1 lb. of Victor “P” Savaline (p. 36) or Shorthorn Preserver (p. 8),
a few small raw mashed onions, salt according to taste, Special Victor
Flour (p. 24) as desired, add water and mix this very good, then fill
into beef middles and smoke and boil the same as straight bologna.

To make a fine big bologna or Cleveland sausage, use the same kind of
meat and spices as used for Leona, also use for 100 lbs. of meat, 15
lbs. of pickled, boiled pig tongues, and cut them into 1-inch cubes.
Also use 10 lbs. of raw dry salted back fat, cut that into small
¹⁄₄-inch cubes and mix both good and evenly with the meat. Stuff this
into beef bungs, and smoke and cook the same way as big bologna.

(Continued on Page 102)


Leonawurst (Leona Sausage)

Nehme 65 Pf. Rindfleisch, dasselbe muss gut von allem Talg und Flexen
ausgeschnitten sein, 25 Pf. Schweinefleisch und 10 Pf. “Bacon.” Das
Rind- und Schweinefleisch muss sehr fein gehackt werden und soll einen
Tag im Kühlraume stehen, damit dasselbe gut fest wird. Während des
Hackens des Fleisches, gebrauche “A” Savaline (S. 112) oder Berkshire
Preserver (S. 4), auf der Basis von 1 Pf. zu 100 Pf. Fleisch, damit
dasselbe ein schönes, rotes Aussehen bekommt. Der “Bacon” oder
geräucherte Speck, muss in kleine Würfel geschnitten werden. Dann
gebrauche ein Pfund “F” Best Spice (S. 16), ein par kleine rohe
Zwiebeln, fein gerieben, genug Salz, je nach Geschmack, “Special Victor
Flour” (S. 24) je nach wunsch, Wasser und verarbeite oder vermenge
dieses sehr gut. Nachdem, stopfe das Fleisch in “Beef Middles,” räuchere
und koche die Wurst denselben Weg als die lange Fleischwurst.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 103)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Victor Bevel-Geared Attachment

  For Hand-Power Enterprise Choppers

[Illustration]

  No. 32

  Runs Easy, Smooth and Fast--A Labor Saver

EASY--Makes work play. A great labor saver.

HANDY--Can be fastened on back counter, the chopper lengthways of
counter, with flywheel over the edge. No other cutter can be placed so
conveniently.

Is just the thing for markets and small sausage makers, hotels and
restaurants, making Hamburg steak, corned beef hash, etc.

NOTE.--On Nos. 122 and 132, the chopper is detachable by means of
thumbscrew.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

  Victor Bevel-Geared Attachment

[Illustration]

  For
  Hand-Power
  Enterprise
  Choppers

No. 132

  Can be had complete with Chopper, or the Attachment
  separately, ready to attach to Chopper

Net Prices

  No.  22 Attachment only              $ 7.50
  No.  22 Chopper, with Attachment      11.00
  No.  32 Attachment only                9.50
  No.  32 Chopper, with Attachment      14.00
  No. 122 Attachment only                7.50
  No. 122 Chopper, with Attachment      11.00
  No. 132 Attachment only                9.50
  No. 132 Chopper, with Attachment      14.00

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Bockwurst

Take 30 lbs. of beef, 35 lbs. of veal and 35 lbs. of pork, chop very
fine, add 1 lb. of “F” Best Spice (p. 16), 1 lb. of Victor “A” Savaline
(p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver (p. 4), Victor Flour (p. 24) as desired,
2 lbs. of raw onions, 3 ounces chives, cut into very small pieces, salt
according to taste, and about 20 to 25 lbs. of water. Mix this very good
and rub meat until it is white, as bockwurst should look as white as
possible; stuff into wide sheep casings and link in lengths about 5
inches.

(Continued on Page 106)

Um eine feine _Schinkenwurst auch Cleveland Sausage_ genannt, zu machen,
nehme dasselbe Fleisch als für Leona, auch dasselbe Gewürz, dann
gebrauche noch zu 100 Pfund Fleisch, 15 Pf. gesalzene, gekochte
Schweinszungen, schneide dieselben in kleine ein-zöllige Würfel. Dann
gebrauche 10 Pf. rohen gesalzenen Rückenspeck, schneide denselben in
einviertel zöllige Würfel und vermenge dieses gut und gleichmässig mit
dem Fleisch. Stopfe dasselbe in Beef Bungs und räuchere und koche auf
dieselbe Weise als “Big Bologna.”


Bockwurst

Gebrauche 30 Pf. Rindfleisch, 35 Pf. Kalbsfleisch und 35 Pf.
Schweinefleisch, hacke oder mahle dieses sehr fein. Dann nehme ein Pfund
“F” Best Spice (S. 16), 2 Pf. rohe Zwiebeln, 3 “Ounces” Petersilie, sehr
fein geschnitten, “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24) nach wunsch, Salz je
nach dem Geschmack, und Wasser, je nachdem das Wasser annimmt. Vermenge
und reibe das Fleisch sehr gut, damit dasselbe schön weiss wird, da die
Bockwurst ganz weiss aussehen muss. Stopfe dieselbe in weite Schafdärme
und drehe die Wurst in der Länge von fünf Zoll ab.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 107)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The
  Victor Automatic
  Smokehouse

[Illustration]

  Patent No. 777467, December 13th, 1904

  Our Latest and Best Invention

  The
  Victor Automatic
  Smokehouse

  Patent No. 777467, December 13th, 1904

  Fills a long felt want

No smoke can escape into the room when the door is open.

Saves smoky rooms.

Saves sore eyes.

Saves complaints of tenants.

Takes no more room than an ordinary smokehouse.

Sausage and Meats can be left in after smoking without getting more
smoke.

Smoke can be absolutely cut off from the upper compartment when desired.

  Price List

  ====+========+========+========+=========+===========
  No. | Height | Front  |  Side  |  Solid  | Sectional
  ----+--------+--------+--------+---------+-----------
  100 | 7 feet | 3 feet | 2 feet | $40 00  |  $50 00
  120 | 8  “   | 3  “   | 2  “   |  50 00  |   62 50
  130 | 8  “   | 3  “   | 3  “   |  57 50  |   72 50
  140 | 8  “   | 4  “   | 3  “   |  70 00  |   85 00
  ----+--------+--------+--------+---------+-----------

  Write for discount

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Cervelat or Summer Sausage

Take 40 lbs. of well trimmed beef, 40 lbs. of pork and 20 lbs. of back
fat. First chop your beef fine, then add your pork and fat and chop all
fine. Add ³⁄₄ of lb. of “C” Best Spice (p. 16), 1 lb. of “A” Savaline
(p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver (p. 4), salt according to taste, and
spread meat on benches for 1 or 2 days. All meat used for this sausage
should be cured for a few days before chopping. Fill into hog bungs or
beef middles tightly, care being taken to exclude all air, hang up in
open air and dry well before smoking. Cool smoke is required for this
sausage.

(Continued on Page 110)


Cervelat (Summer Sausage)

Nehme 40 Pf. gut ausgeschnittenes Rindfleisch, 40 Pf. mageres
Schweinefleisch und 20 Pf. gesalzenen Rückenspeck. Das Rindfleisch muss
erst sehr fein gehackt werden. Nachdem tue das Schweinefleisch und den
Rückenspeck dazu und hacke alles zusammen sehr fein. Gebrauche
dreiviertel Pfund “C” Best Spice (S. 16), ein Pfund “A” Savaline (S.
112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4) und genug Salz, je nach dem
Geschmack. Das Fleisch soll, ehe dasselbe gestopft wird, auf Bretter
ausgebreitet werden und ein bis zwei Tage im Kühlraum liegen, damit
dasselbe gut fest wird. Gebrauche “Hog Bungs” oder “Beef Middles” für
diese Wurst und stopfe die Därme sehr fest. Man muss ebenfalls sehr
vorsichtig sein, damit keine Luft dazwischen bleibt. Die Wurst muss erst
in einem Trockenraum gut trocknen, ehe man dieselbe mit Hartholzspähnen
leicht räuchert. Der Rauchfang darf nicht heiss werden beim Räuchern.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 111)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Germania Fat Cutter

[Illustration]

  Cut showing machine ready to run

[Illustration]

  Cut showing machine open, and cutting mechanism

  (_See opposite page for description_)

  Germania Fat Cutter

  [~Germania Speckschneide-Maschine~]

  Simple and Convenient to Operate
  Strong and Durable Construction
  Great Capacity and Little Power
  The Very Finest Workmanship
  Cuts Very Uniform Cubes

  Size of Machine

  Weight                        lbs. 625
  Length                         in.  50
  Width                          in.  36
  Height                         in.  43
  Pulleys            diameter, in. 14¹⁄₄
  Pulleys                face, in.  2³⁄₄
  Speed       revolutions per minute 100

  Furnished with Two Knife Plates

  Sizes

  ⁵⁄₈  inch squares    ⁵⁄₁₆ inch squares

  Special Knife Plates can be made to order
  for other sizes if wanted.

  Works Equally Well on Raw or Cooked Fat
  Does Clean, Quick Work
  The Only Perfect Machine Made for this Work

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Salami Sausage

Take 60 lbs. of beef, 20 lbs. of pork and 20 lbs. of back fat. Chop beef
and pork coarse, cut back fat into ¹⁄₄-inch cubes and add to meat, when
near fine enough, add 1 lb. of “C” Spice (p. 16), 1 lb. of “A” Savaline
(p. 112) or Berkshire Preserver (p. 4), salt according to taste and 2
ounces of Concentrated Garlic (p. 84) or Sayer’s Extract of Garlic to
suit the taste. Fill into beef middles or sheep bungs and string them
tight with twine, then hang up to dry. Some prefer Salami smoked, you
also can keep same without being smoked.


Landjaeger

Take exactly the same amount of beef, pork, back fat, chop the same way
as for Salami, use the same spice and garlic and fill meat very loose
into beef rounds or wide hog casings, link and cut same into pairs of
two about 10 inches long. After being smoked, put sausage into a corned
beef press and press them flat, or under a board with weights.

(Continued on Page 114)


Salamiwurst

Gebrauche 60 Pf. Rindfleisch, 20 Pf. Schweinefleisch und 20 Pf.
gesalzenen Rückenspeck. Hacke das Rind- und Schweinefleisch ziemlich
grob, schneide den Rückenspeck in kleine einviertel zöllige Würfel und
tue denselben mit dem übrigen Fleisch nachdem dasselbe beinahe fein
genug gehackt ist. Dann gebrauche ein Pfund “C” Spice (S. 16) und ein
Pfund “A” Savaline (S. 112), oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4), genug Salz
je nach Geschmack und zwei “Ounces” “Concentrated Garlic” (S. 84), oder
Sayer’s Extract of Garlic. Nehme Schlossdärme (Beef Middles) oder
Schafbutten (Sheep Bungs), stopfe dieselben gut fest, umbinde dieselben
dann mit Schnur (Twine) und hänge dann die Wurst in den Trockenraum.
Salami wird trocken verkauft, kann aber auch geräuchert werden.


Landjäger

Gebrauche dasselbe Quantum Rindfleisch, Schweinefleisch und Rückenspeck,
hacke dasselbe denselben Weg als für Salami und gebrauche dasselbe
Gewürz und Knoblauch. Stopfe das sehr lose in Kranzdärme (Beef Rounds)
oder weite Schweinsdärme (Wide Hog Casings) und drehe dieselben
Paarweise in der Länge von zehn Zoll ab. Nachdem die Wurst getrocknet
und geräuchert ist, presse dieselben in einer “Corned Beef Press” ganz
breit.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 115)

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

  Victor Pure Food Savaline

  Brand “A”

  VICTOR
  PURE FOOD
  SAVALINE
  BRAND “A”

  For Fresh Sausage, Meats, etc.

  Especially adapted for use on
  Fresh Pork and Liver Sausage,
  Sausage Meat, Hamburger
  Steak, Fresh Meats, Poultry,
  Game and Fish

  Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act of June 30th, 1906 Serial No.
  10222

  Put up in 1 Lb. Packages

  Price:

   15 and 25 lbs.       per lb. 27c
   50 lbs.              per lb. 26c
  100 lbs.              per lb. 25c
  Bbls., in Bulk.       per lb. 22c

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Polish Sausage

Take 45 lbs. of beef, 40 lbs. of pork and 15 lbs. of pork back fat. Chop
beef and pork quite coarse, cut back fat, which should be dry salted,
into ¹⁄₂-inch cubes and add same to beef and pork, when it is nearly
fine enough chopped. Add 1 lb. of Polish Sausage Seasoning “(Do
Zaprawiania Kiełbasy Polsky)” (p. 28), 1 lb. of “A” Savaline (p. 112) or
Berkshire Preserver (p. 4), 2 ounces of Concentrated Garlic or Sayer’s
Extract of Garlic to suit the taste and salt according to taste. Also
add Special Victor Flour (p. 24) as desired. Stuff sausage into beef
rounds or hog casings and smoke them thoroughly with hardwood. Polish
sausage should first be boiled, when same is to be eaten.

(Continued on Page 118)


Polnische Wurst (Polish Sausage)

Nehme 45 Pf. Rindfleisch, 40 Pf. Schweinefleisch und 15 Pf. Rückenspeck.
Ersteres Fleisch soll sehr grob gehackt werden. Der Rückenspeck, welcher
gesalzen sein soll, muss in kleine einhalb-zöllige Würfel geschnitten
und erst mit dem Fleisch zusammen getan werden, wenn dasselbe beinahe
fein genug gehackt ist. Dann gebrauche ein Pfund “Polish Sausage
Seasoning” (Do Zaprawiania Kiełbasy Polsky) (S. 28), ein Pfund “A”
Savaline (S. 112) oder Berkshire Preserver (S. 4), zwei “Ounces”
Concentrated Garlic oder Sayer’s Extract of Garlic und genug Salz, je
nach dem Geschmack, ebenfalls “Special Victor Flour” (S. 24) je nach
wunsch. Stopfe dieses in “Beef Rounds” oder “Hog Casings” und räuchere
die Wurst gut durch mit einem starken Hartholzfeuer. Polnische Wurst
wird erst gekocht wenn dieselbe gegessen werden soll.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 119)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Hermoseal

  The Only Satisfactory
  Sausage Dip

  Flexible and Hermetic--Prevents shrinkage and improves appearance.
  Guaranteed under U. S. Pure Food Laws.

  Try It

  Saves many times its cost

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

  Scaldine

  Should be Used by Every
  Slaughterer of Hogs

[Illustration]

SCALDINE is a new invention recently discovered which is used in
conjunction with water for scalding hogs, removing the hair, improving
the quality thereof and cleansing the bodies of hogs. It is the greatest
scientific discovery of the age, inasmuch as it is an antidote for hard
water or for any other defect which water may possess which is used in
scalding hogs. One of the most essential things in handling hogs is to
remove all dirt, impurities and hair from the water, as it not alone
cleanses them, aids in selling them, improves the appearance, but
destroys any germs which may be lurking in the skin. It is a thorough
germicide, and will be found of great value to every scalder of hogs.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


Holstein Sausage

This sausage is made the same way as Polish, with the only difference
that the meat is chopped finer and the sausage is made without the
garlic flavor. Also instead of smoking with a hot fire, smoke same
slowly and cool with hickory or oak sawdust. Holstein can be eaten raw
or boiled.


Minced Ham

Take 80 lbs. of lean pork, 20 lbs. of beef, chop beef very fine, then
add the pork and chop both together, but not too fine. Add 16 ounces of
“P” Best Spice (p. 16), 1 lb. of “P” Savaline (p. 36) or Shorthorn
Preserver (p. 8) and 3 lbs. of salt. This meat should stand in ice house
for at least 2 or 3 days before being stuffed. Then stuff same into beef
bladders or beef bung guts, smoke very slow and boil from 3 to 3¹⁄₂
hours in water 175 degrees Fahrenheit.

(Continued on Page 122)


Holsteinische Wurst (Holstein Sausage)

Diese Wurst wird auf dieselbe Weise als “Polish” gemacht, mit dem
Unterschied, dass das Fleisch feiner gehackt wird und auch ohne
Knoblauch zubereitet wird. Auch darf die Wurst nicht zu heiss geräuchert
werden und soll dieselbe mit Hartholzspähnen langsam und ganz kühl
geräuchert werden. Dieselbe kann roh und gekocht gegessen werden.


Minced Ham

Nehme 80 Pf. mageres Schweinefleisch und 20 Pf. Rindfleisch. Das
letztere muss sehr fein gehackt werden, ehe dasselbe mit dem
Schweinefleisch zusammen getan wird, welches nicht zu fein gehackt
werden darf. Dann gebrauche ein Pfund “P” Best Spice (S. 16), ein Pfund
“P” Savaline (S. 36) or Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8) und drei Pfund Salz.
Lasse dieses Fleisch dann von zwei bis drei Tagen im Kühlraum stehen und
nachdem, stopfe dasselbe in Rindsblasen (Beef Bladders) oder
Rinderbutten (Beef Bung Guts), räuchere sehr langsam und koche von 3 bis
3¹⁄₂ Stunden in Wasser von 175 Grad Fahrenheit.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 123)

       *       *       *       *       *

  The Sayer
  Ice and Refrigerating
  Machine

[Illustration]

1. It does away with the slop and inconvenience of ice forever.

2. It saves the biggest part of the ice bill--the running expense is
very light.

3. It produces more cold (as cold as you want it) and under perfect
control.

4. It enables you to take advantage of the market, and stock up when you
have a chance to buy cheap, knowing you are safe with your cold-storage,
where you would not chance it with ice.

5. The dry intense cold saves trimming enough to pretty near pay the
running expense.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

  The Sayer Refrigerating Plant

  Compact and Efficient

[Illustration]

_Our twenty years’ reputation_ for high grade work and square dealing
stands back of every machine we send out. The refrigerating machine has
come to stay. It is taking the place of ice with the most progressive
up-to-date butchers. It is _better than ice_ and _cheaper than ice_, so
you can’t very well afford to be without one. The main thing is to get a
_good one_, absolutely simple to operate, absolutely reliable and
efficient in work and absolutely durable, properly constructed and built
to last a lifetime. That’s the kind we make, and the only kind to get. A
good ice machine is a good permanent investment.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *


New England Ham

Take 100 lbs. of lean pork and cut into small pieces about 1 inch thick,
mix this well with 3 lbs. of fine salt, 3 ounces of saltpetre, 1 lb. of
granulated sugar and 1 lb. of “P” Savaline (p. 36) or Shorthorn
Preserver (p. 8). Then pack meat into a barrel or tub, press down solid
and leave same stand in ice house from 5 to 7 days. Stuff meat into beef
bungs and smoke slowly until sausage gets a nice light color. Boil from
2 to 3 hours in water from 170 to 180 degrees Fahrenheit and then press
them flat until sausage is cold.


Chopping and Mixing

In chopping meat for any kind of fresh or smoked sausage, it is of great
value to add your water little by little, say a quart at a time; after
the meat has absorbed this, add another quart, and so forth until meat
gets good and gummy. Also add your necessary flour the same way as the
water. Of course, every sausage maker must use his own judgment as to
how much water the meat will take. If you should add too much water at
one time, your meat will get “mushy” and you will not be able to get it
solid or doughy.

(Continued on Page 126)


Neu-England Schinken (New England Ham)

Nehme 100 Pf. mageres Schweinefleisch und schneide dasselbe in kleine,
ein Zoll dicke Würfel. Dann nehme drei Pfund feines Salz, drei “Ounces
Saltpetre,” ein Pfund granulierten Zucker und ein Pfund “P” Savaline (S.
36) or Shorthorn Preserver (S. 8). Verarbeite dieses gleichmässig
zwischen dem Fleisch, dann packe dasselbe in ein Fass oder Zuber, presse
dasselbe fest und lasse dann im Kühlraum von 5 bis 7 Tagen stehen. Dann
stopfe das Fleisch in “Beef Bungs,” räuchere die Wurst langsam bis
dieselbe schön und hell angeräuchert ist. Dann koche dieselbe von 2 bis
3 Stunden in Wasser von 170 bis 180 Grad Fahrenheit. Nachdem presse die
Wurst bis dieselbe kalt ist.


Das Hacken und Vermengen

(_Chopping and Mixing_) des Fleisches ist von sehr grossem Wert,
dasselbe auf die richtige Art und Weise zu tun. Das Wasser was gebraucht
wird, muss während dem Hacken des Fleisches in kleinen Quantitäten von
Zeit zu Zeit beigetan werden. Ebenso muss das Mehl denselben Weg
verarbeitet werden. Dieses ermöglicht, mehr Wasser und Mehl gebrauchen
zu können, als wenn dasselbe in grösseren Quantitäten beigetan wird.
Natürlich muss der Wurstmacher genau wissen wie viel Wasser das Fleisch
annimmt. Sollte zu viel auf einmal gebraucht werden, so verliert das
Fleisch die Bindekraft und wird niemals fest und gut.

(Fortsetzung auf S. 127)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Sayer Ice Machine

[Illustration]

The Sayer has more wearing surface on the movable parts than any other,
and will therefore last ten times longer. The wearing parts are so made
that they follow each other up, and no amount of wear ever affects the
working of our machine.

No valves to break and fall into the cylinders and cut the cylinder
walls or spring the shafts. No connection rods to jar loose and smash
the machine.

If you want the best, write us for particulars.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

  Fred H. Fritz
  Dealer in Home-Made Sausage
  Joliet, Illinois

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER,

  Chicago, Ill.

  _Gentlemen_:

Replying to your letter of September 21st, in which you ask me how my
power bills for running the ice machine compare with my ice bills for
the corresponding months last year, I will say that they are much lower,
and at the same time I get much better refrigeration.

The different months are as follows:

  May, last year, for ice                 $ 78.50
  May, this year, for electric power        31.47
  June, last year, for ice                  73.08
  June, this year, for electric power       46.71
  July, last year, for ice                 107.91
  July, this year, for electric power       45.00
  August, last year, for ice               106.59
  August, this year, for electric power     43.98

I enclose receipted bills for last year’s ice, and for this year’s
electric power, so you can see for yourselves.

As you will notice, I paid $3.00 per ton for ice last year, and you will
also notice the big difference between July of last year for ice, and
July of this year for electric power, and this year we had a much hotter
July than last year.

I am doing the same work with the electric power attached to the ice
machine as I did last year with ice, only I am doing it much better. It
is not only costing me much less than ice, but I am getting fully 10
degrees lower temperature in my coolers.

I certainly would not be without my Sayer Ice Machine at any price. I
consider that you people have fitted me out in fine shape. I have seen
other makes of ice machines, and am convinced that yours is the best. I
have no trouble whatever in running the machine. It is very simple, and
I have no stoppages or repairs whatever.

  Yours truly,

  FRED H. FRITZ.

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

_The mixing_ is also very important and necessary. It distributes the
spices evenly and binds the meat, also enables you to add water properly
and thereby produce a more palatable article. Of course, it is a hard
job to mix by hand, if you have no mixing machine, but it pays you well
for your labor.

_The seasoning_ of sausage is another important factor of sausage
making. I can tell you what--and how much to use, but it is absolutely
necessary for you also to have a good “taste.” At times you may have a
little more or less meat, so therefore you must be able to add a little
more spice if needed. A sausage is not always good because it looks
good, but if it has a fine, appetizing taste, the appearance will be
overlooked; of course, it should have both.

Das _Vermengen_ (_Mixing_) des Fleisches ist ebenso notwendig, als
vorteilhaft. Das Gewürz und Mehl werden dadurch gut verteilt, auch
ermöglicht dieses mehr Wasser gebrauchen zu können. Es ist zwar harte
Arbeit, wenn man gezwungen ist mit den Händen zu vermengen, im Fall
keine “Mixing Machine” da ist, aber es bezahlt sich sehr gut.

Das _Würzen_ der Wurst, ist die Hauptsache beim Wurstmachen. Um einen
ausgezeichneten Geschmack hervorzubringen, muss der Wurstmacher auch
einen guten Geschmack haben. Ich kann noch so genau vorschreiben was und
wieviel von jedem Gewürz gebraucht werden soll. Ein Mann muss das
Fleisch schmecken da man mitunter ein bischen mehr oder weniger Fleisch
hat und auch dasselbe mitunter mehr oder weniger gesalzen ist. Der
Geschmack ist deshalb sehr leicht verdorben und die Wurst mag noch so
schön aussehen, wenn der feine Geschmack fehlt, hilft das Aussehen
nichts mehr. Gute Wurst muss beides haben, einen feinen Geschmack und
ein gutes Aussehen.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Our Great Specialty

  Prime Sausage Casings

  One Quality--The Best

Hog Casings

Our own cleaning. We make a specialty of selected narrow pig casings,
carefully selected to suit the most fastidious trade. Packed in tierces,
600 lbs.; barrels, 400 lbs.; kegs, 150, 100 and 50 lbs. Guaranteed wide,
medium or narrow, as ordered.

  Hog Bungs
  Hog Middles
  Hog Stomachs

Sheep Casings

From our own factories in New Zealand, England, Russia and all parts of
the world. No selection can be more thorough.

  Extra Wide--_Carefully Selected_
  Medium Wide
  Medium
  Medium Narrow
  Narrow

  Packed in Tierces, Barrels and Kegs.

Beef Casings

Our own cleaning. Quality A1. Careful selection.

  Beef Rounds
  Beef Middles
  Beef Bungs
  Beef Bladders--_Wesands_

  In Tierces, Barrels or Kegs.

  We are the leading Cleaners, Importers and Exporters of Sausage
  Casings in the World

  Write for Prices

  WOLF, SAYER & HELLER
  INCORPORATED
  NEW YORK CHICAGO MONTREAL
  HAMBURG SYDNEY, N. S. W. CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z. LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *




Index of Supplies and Machinery


                                           _Page_
  Air Stuffers                        68-69-72-73
  Automatic Smoke House                   104-105
  Berkshire Preserver                         4-5
  BEST Seasoning                            16-17
  Bevel Gear Chopper                      100-101
  Blocks                                       41
  Braunschweiger Seasoning                     21
  Casings                                     128
  Concentrated Garlic                          81
  Coolers                             48-49-52-53
  Corned Beef Tray                             60
  Counters                                  44-45
  Electric Grinders                         64-65
  English Breakfast Seasoning                  20
  Extract of Garlic                            80
  Fat Cutter                              108-109
  Fish Box                                     97
  Flour                                     24-25
  Garlic                                    80-81
  Germania Fat Cutter                     108-109
  Golden Rod Color                             96
  Hamburger Seasoning                          33
  Ham Press                                    40
  Hermoseal                                   116
  Ice Machines                    120-121-124-125
  Manhattan Stuffers                        76-77
  Peerless Slicers              84-85-88-89-92-93
  Polish Seasoning                          28-29
  Refrigerating Machines          120-121-124-125
  Refrigerator Cases                        56-57
  Sausage Casings                             128
  Savaline “A”,                             36-37
  Savaline “P”,                           112-113
  Scaldine                                    117
  Seasoning                                 16-33
  Shorthorn Preserver                         8-9
  Slicers                       84-85-88-89-92-93
  Smoke House                             104-105
  Special Victor                            24-25
  Stuffers                      68-69-72-73-76-77
  Victor “A” Savaline                     112-113
  Victor Bevel Gear Chopper               100-101
  Victor Brine                              12-13
  Victor Flour                              24-25
  Victor “P” Savaline                       36-37

(See Page 1 for Index of Recipes.)


  _F.F_
  _Faithorn Fecit_
  _Chicago_




  Transcriber’s Notes


  The original book consists of a series of one page of English text,
  one page of German text, and two pages of advertisements. This order
  has been retained for this e-text, but text paragraphs have been
  re-combined when split over multiple pages. Therefore some pages of
  recipes are left blank except for a pointer to the next page of
  recipes. In this text, advertisement pages are separated from the
  recipe pages by a line of asterisks.

  The English, Polish and German text as used in the source document
  have not been corrected, except as listed below. Differences between
  the English and German texts have not been rectified.

  p.41: In the source document, the heading was not translated (Mess
  Pork or Barreled Pork, Description and How to Cure).

  p. 90: Salvaline: as printed in the source document.

  The page numbers in the Index of Supplies and Machinery have not been
  corrected, except as mentioned below.


  Changes made:

  Some missing punctuation has been corrected silently.

  The spelling and punctuation in the publishers’ places of business in
  the page footer of the advertisement pages have been standardised.

  page 1: page number 2 changed to page number 2-3

  page 31: Troken-gesalzenes changed to Trocken-gesalzenes

  page 28-29 and 114-115: spelling KIEŁBASY and kiełbasy has been
  standardised

  page 47: manches zu weinig changed to manches zu wenig

  page 67: Rüeckenfett changed to Rückenfett

  page 91: nach wunsch changed to nach Wunsch

  page 99 and page 113: Rind und Schweinefleisch changed to Rind- und
  Schweinefleisch

  page 129: page numbers 136 and 137 changed to 36 and 37.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Butchers', Packers' and Sausage
Makers' Red Book, by Geo. J. Sayer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SAUSAGE MAKERS' RED BOOK  ***

***** This file should be named 59863-0.txt or 59863-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/8/6/59863/

Produced by MFR, Harry Lamé and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
